{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;}{\stylesheet{\s1 Heading 1;}{\s2 Heading 2;}{\s3 Heading 3;}{\s4 Heading 4;}{\s5 Heading 5;}{\s6 Heading 6;}{\s7 Heading 7;}{\s8 Heading 8;}{\s9 Heading 9;}}
\deflang1024\notabind\facingp\hyphauto1\widowctrl
\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1920\headery0\footery0\pgndec{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa430\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb259\s3\sl374 \b\fs28\f1 Welcome to INN 2.3!\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl260 \b0\fs20\f0  Please read this document thoroughly before trying to install INN. You'll be glad you did. If you are upgrading from a previous release of INN (pre-2.0) then it is recommended that you make copies of your old configuration files and use them as guides for doing a clean installation and configuration of 2.3. Many config files have changed, some have been added, and some have been removed. You'll find it much easier to start with a fresh install than to try to update your old installation.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl374 \b\fs28\f1 Supported Systems\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\sl-240 \b0\fs20\f0  \cf1 FreeBSD 2.2.x \cf0 \cf1 FreeBSD 3.x \cf0 \cf1 Linux 2.0.x (with libc 5.4 or libc 6.0) \cf0 \cf1 OpenBSD ?.? \cf0 \cf1 SCO 5.0.4 (tested with gcc 2.8.1) \cf0 \cf1 Solaris 2.5.x \cf0 \cf1 Solaris 2.6.x \cf0 \cf1 SunOS 4.1.4 \cf0 \cf1 UX/4800 R11 and up \cf0 \cf1 AIX 4.2 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl374 \b\fs28\f1\cf0 Before You Begin\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\sl-240 \b0\fs20\f0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl260\fi-200 \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sl-240  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl260  INN requires Perl to build and to run several subsystems. Though some perl scripts are compatible with Perl 4, some features (such as script embedded in the server) mandate Perl 5. An audit has not yet been done on what the minimum version of Perl for all features is, so it is recommended that you have at least Perl version 5.004. For instructions on obtaining and installing Perl, see http://language.perl.com/info/software.html. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl-240  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sl-240  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl260\fi-200 \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sl-240  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl260  The INN Makefiles use the syntax "include FILE", rather than the syntax common on BSDish systems of ".include \cf1 ". If your system expects the BSDish syntax, you can address this in two ways: change each Makefile's "include" lines, or install GNU Make from ftp://ftp.gnu.ai.mit.edu. If you choose the latter route, make sure that the "make" command in site/do-subst.sh points to GNU Make. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl-240 \cf0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sl-240  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl260\fi-200 \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sl-240  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl260  If you want to enable support for authenticated control messages (this is NOT required) then you will need to install PGP. There are some questions involving PGP's license if you are running a commercial installation of INN (i.e. you are an ISP). See http://www.pgp.com for more information about PGP. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\sl-240  \hyphpar0\par}
