=head1 NAME

archive - Usenet article archiver

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<archive> [B<-cfr>] [B<-a> I<archive>] [B<-i> I<index>] [B<-p> I<pattern>]
[I<input>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<archive> makes copies of files specified on its standard input.  It is
normally run either as a channel feed under B<innd> or by a script
before B<news.daily> is run.

B<archive> reads the named I<input> file, or standard input if no file is
given.  The input is taken as a sequence of lines; blank lines and lines
starting with a number sign (C<#>) are ignored.  All other lines should
specify the token of an article to archive.  Every article is retrieved
from a token, and the Xref: header is used to determine the target file in
the archive directory.  You can limit the targets taken from the Xref:
header with the B<-p> option.

Files are copied to a directory within the archive directory,
I<patharchive> in F<inn.conf> (or some other directory given with B<-a>).
The default is to create a hierarchy that mimics a traditional news spool
storage of the given articles; intermediate directories will be created as
needed.  For example, if the input token represents article 2211 in the
newsgroup comp.sources.unix, B<archive> will by default store the article
as:

    comp/sources/unix/2211

in the archive area.  This can be modified with the B<-c> and B<-f>
options.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a> I<archive>

If the B<-a> flag is given, its argument specifies the root of the archive
area, instead of I<patharchive> in F<inn.conf>.

=item B<-c>

If the B<-c> flag is given, directory names will be flattened as described
under the B<-f> option.  Then, additionally, all posts will be
concatenated into a single file, appending to that file if it already
exists.  The file name will be C<YYYYMM>, formed from the current time when
B<archive> is run.  In other words, if given an article in
comp.sources.unix on December 14th, 1998, the article would be appended to
the file:

    comp.sources.unix/199812

in the archive area.

Articles will be separated by a line containing only C<----------->.

=item B<-f>

If the B<-f> flag is used, directory names will be flattened, replacing
the slashes with the periods.  In other words, article 2211 in
comp.sources.unix will be written to:

    comp.sources.unix/2211

in the archive area.

=item B<-i> I<index>

If the B<-i> flag is used, B<archive> will append one line to the file
I<index> for each article that it archives.  This line will contain the
destination file name, the Message-ID: header, and the Subject: header of
the message, separated by spaces.  If either header is missing (normally
not possible if the article was accepted by B<innd>), it will be replaced
by C<< <none> >>.  The headers will be transformed using the same rules as
are used to generate overview data (unfolded and then with tabs, CR, and
LF replaced by spaces).

=item B<-p> I<pattern>

Limits the targets taken from the Xref: header to the groups specified in
I<pattern>.  I<pattern> is a uwildmat(3) pattern matching newsgroups that
you wish to have B<archive> handle.

=item B<-r>

By default, B<archive> sets its standard error to I<pathlog>/errlog.  To
suppress this redirection, use the B<-r> flag.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUE

If the input is exhausted, B<archive> will exit with a zero status.  If an
I/O error occurs, it will try to spool its input, copying it to a file.
If there was no input filename, the standard input will be copied to
I<pathoutgoing>/archive and the program will exit.  If an input filename
was given, a temporary file named I<input>.bch (if I<input> is an absolute
pathname) or I<pathoutgoing>/I<input>.bch (if the filename does not begin
with a slash) is created.  Once the input is copied, B<archive> will try
to rename this temporary file to be the name of the input file, and then
exit.

=head1 EXAMPLES

A typical newsfeeds(5) entry to archive most source newsgroups is as
follows:

    source-archive!\
        :!*,*sources*,!*wanted*,!*.d\
        :Tc,Wn\
        :<pathbin>/archive -f -i <patharchive>/INDEX

Replace <pathbin> and <patharchive> with the appropriate paths.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Converted to
POD by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

inn.conf(5), newsfeeds(5).

=cut
