=head1 NAME

batcher - Article batching for InterNetNews

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<batcher> [B<-rv>] [B<-a> I<articles>] [B<-A> I<total-articles>]
[B<-b> I<size>] [B<-B> I<total-size>] [B<-i> I<string>]
[B<-N> I<batches>] [B<-p> I<process>] [B<-s> I<separator>]
I<host> [I<input>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<batcher> reads a list of files and prepares news batches for the
specified host.  It is generally used to prepare UUCP feeds, but the
resulting batches can be used by any application that uses rnews(8) to
inject the articles.  It is normally invoked by a script run out of cron
that uses B<shlock> to lock the host, followed by B<ctlinnd> to flush the
batch file.  See send-uucp(8) for a front-end for B<batcher>.

B<batcher> reads the file I<input>, or standard input if no file is given.
If I<input> is a relative file name, it is assumed to be in
I<pathoutgoing> as set in F<inn.conf>.  Blank lines and lines starting
with a number sign (C<#>) are ignored.  All other lines in the input
should consist of one or two fields separated by a single space.  The
first field is the storage API token of an article.  The second field,
if present, specifies the size of the article in bytes.

By default, batches are written to standard output (which isn't very
useful if more than one batch is output), but see the B<-p> option.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a> I<articles>

This flag limits the number of articles included in each batch.  The
default is no limit.  A new batch will be started when either the total
bytes or the number of articles written exceeds the specified limits.

=item B<-A> I<total-articles>

Limits the total number of articles written for all batches.  As soon as
the total number of articles written to batches reaches or exceeds
I<total-articles>, all additional articles in the input will be deferred.
The default is no limit.

=item B<-b> I<size>

This flag sets the size limit for each batch; as soon as at least this
much data has been written out, a new batch will be started.  The default
size is S<60 KB>.  Using C<-b 0> will allow unlimited batch sizes.

=item B<-B> I<total-size>

Limits the total number of bytes written for all batches.  As soon as the
total bytes written to batches reaches or exceeds I<total-size>, all
additional articles in the input will be deferred.  The default is no
limit.

=item B<-i> I<string>

A batch starts with an identifying line to specify the unpacking method to
be used on the receiving end.  When this flag is used, I<string>, followed
by a newline, will be output at the start of each batch.  The default is
to have no initial string (under the assumption that either the processor
specified with the B<-p> flag or some other later process will add the
appropriate line).

=item B<-N> I<batches>

Limits the total number of batches written.  As soon as the number of
batches written reaches or exceeds I<batches>, all additional articles in
the input will be deferred.  The default is no limit.

=item B<-p> I<process>

By default, batches are written to standard output, which is not useful
when more than one output batch is created.  If this option is given, each
batch will instead be fed via a pipe to the shell command I<process>.  The
I<process> argument must be an sprintf(3) format string, which may have a
single C<%s> parameter that will be replaced with the host name.

A common value is:

    ( echo '#! gunbatch' ; exec gzip -c ) | uux - -r -z %s!rnews

which generates gzip-compressed batches and feeds them to B<uux>.

=item B<-r>

By default, B<batcher> reports errors to I<pathlog>/errlog.  To suppress
this redirection and report errors to standard error, use the B<-r> flag.

=item B<-s> I<separator>

Each article in a batch starts with a separator line that indicates the
size of the article.  I<separator> must be an sprintf(3) string, which may
have a single C<%ld> in the string that will be replaced with the size of
the article.  If the separator is not empty, a newline will also be
appended to it when it is added to the beginning of each article.

The default separator is:

    #! rnews %ld

and this should rarely be changed.

=item B<-v>

Upon exit, B<batcher> reports statistics via syslog.  With this flag, the
statistics will also be printed to standard output.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

If the input is exhausted and all batches are created successfully,
B<batcher> will exit with a zero status.

If any of the limits specified with B<-A>, B<-B>, or B<-N> flags are
reached, or if there is an error in writing a batch, B<batcher> will try
to spool the remaining input by copying it to a file as follows:

=over 2

=item *

If there was no input filename, the remaining input will be copied to
I<pathoutgoing>/I<host>.

=item *

If an input filename was given, the remaining input will be copied to a
temporary file named by appending C<.bch> to the end of I<input> (and
qualified by adding I<pathoutgoing> if I<input> was not a fully qualified
path).  If this happens successfully, B<batcher> will then try to rename
this temporary file to I<input> (thus replacing I<input> with a copy of
itself with all of lines for the successfully batched articles removed).

=back

Upon receipt of an interrupt or termination signal, B<batcher> will finish
batching the current article, close the batch, and then rewrite the batch
file as described above.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten by
Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org> in POD.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

ctlinnd(8), inn.conf(5), newsfeeds(5), rnews(8), send-uucp(8), shlock(1).

=cut
