=head1 NAME

buffindexed.conf - Configuration for the buffindexed overview method

=head1 DESCRIPTION

F<buffindexed.conf>, found in I<pathetc>, specifies the buffers that the
buffindexed overview method should use.  It is required if the server uses
buffindexed (as configured by the I<ovmethod> parameter in F<inn.conf>).

Buffindexed uses pre-built buffer files to store overview data and indexes
to that data.  The buffers are divided into S<8 KB> internally, and a given
block is used either for overview data or for index data.  A block is
always allocated to a single newsgroup and is never shared among
newsgroups.

In addition to the buffers, buffindexed also stores information in a file
named F<group.index> in I<pathdb>.  (This file should not be mistaken for
the one named F<group.index> in I<pathoverview> which is used by the
tradindexed overview method.)  It contains information about each
newsgroup:  the pointer to the index block for the newsgroup, the high
mark, the low mark, the flag of the group, the number of articles, and so
forth.  This file is created automatically when all buffers are
initialized and should not be manually edited.

Buffindexed buffers are of fixed size, so buffindexed will never use more
space than what is available in those buffers.  If all buffers are full,
B<innd> will throttle when it attempts to store overview information for
any additional articles until space is freed (with B<expireover>, for
instance) or another buffer is added.  This is unlike the CNFS storage
method.

You can see the current usage of the buffers with the B<-o> option to
B<inndf>.

In the F<buffindexed.conf> file, blank lines and lines beginning with a
number sign (C<#>) are ignored.  All other lines must be of the format:

    <index>:<filename>:<size>

The order of lines is not significant.

<index> is the index of this overview buffer and must be unique.  Other
than that constraint, it can be any number between 0 and 65535.

<filename> is the path to the buffer.  The length of the path should not
be longer than 63 characters.

<size> is the length of the buffer in kilobytes (S<1 KB = 1024 bytes>).  If
<filename> does not specify a special device, the file size of the buffer
must be S<< <size> * 1024 bytes >>.  If it does specify a special device, that
device must have at least <size> space available.  Buffers over S<2 GB> are
not supported (regardless of whether INN was compiled with large file
support); this limitation may be fixed in the future.  For more
information on setting up the buffers, see L<CREATING BUFFERS>.

An example of F<buffindexed.conf> file can be:

    0:<pathoverview in inn.conf>/OV1:1536000
    1:<pathoverview in inn.conf>/OV2:1536000

When you first start B<innd> with everything configured properly, you
should see messages like this in I<pathlog>/news.notice:

    Aug 27 00:00:00 kevlar innd: buffindexed: No magic cookie found
        for buffindexed 0, initializing

You MUST recreate overview completely using B<makehistory> if you remove
or replace buffers.  However, new buffers can be added without any special
care (other than restarting B<innd> after modifying F<buffindexed.conf>).
If you need to rebuild overview, you should zero all of the buffers first.

=head1 CREATING BUFFERS

There are two methods to create a new buffindexed buffer:

=over 4

=item 1.

Create a large file on top of a regular file system.  The easiest way to
do this is probably with dd(1), using a command like:

    dd if=/dev/zero of=/path/to/cycbuff bs=1024 count=<size>

where <size> is the size from the relevant line in F<buffindexed.conf>.

This is the simplest method, but has the disadvantage that very large
files on regular file systems can be fairly slow to access, particularly
at the end of the file, and INN incurs unnecessary file system overhead
when accessing the buffer.

=item 2.

Use block devices directly.  If your operating system allows you to call
mmap() on block devices (Solaris and recent versions of Linux do, FreeBSD
at last report does not), this method can avoid all of the native file
system overhead.  Note, however, that Solaris has problems with byte range
locking on block devices, and therefore this method should not be used on
Solaris.

Partition the disk to make each partition equal to or smaller than S<2 GB>.
If you're using Solaris, set up your partitions to avoid the first
cylinder of the disk (or otherwise the buffindexed header will overwrite
the disk partition table and render the buffers inaccessible).  Then,
create device files for each block device you're going to use.

It's not recommended to use the block device files in F</dev>, since the
news system doesn't have permission to write to them and changing the
permissions of the system device files may affect something else.
Instead, use mknod(1) to create a new set of block devices (in somewhere
like I<pathspool>/overview that's only writable by the news user).  To do
this, run C<ls -Ll> on the devices in F</dev> that correspond to the block
devices that you want to use.  The major and minor device numbers are in
the fifth and sixth columns (right before the date), respectively.  Then
run mknod like:

    mknod <filename> b <major> <minor>

where <filename> is the path to the device to create (matching the
<filename> part of the buffindexed configuration line) and <major> and
<minor> are the major and minor device numbers as discovered above.

Here's a short script to do this when given the path to the system device
file as an argument:

    #!/bin/sh
    base=`echo "$1" | sed 's%.*/%%'`
    major=`ls -Ll "$1" | awk '{print $5}' | tr -d ,`
    minor=`ls -Ll "$1" | awk '{print $6}`
    mkdir -p <pathoverview in inn.conf>
    mknod <pathoverview>/"$base" b "$major" "$minor"
    chown news:news <pathoverview>/"$base"
    chmod 644 <pathoverview>/"$base"

Make sure that the created files are owned by the news user and news
group, as specified at configure time (the default being C<news> for
both).  Also make sure that the permissions on the devices allow the news
user to read and write.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Katsuhiro Kondou <kondou@nec.co.jp> for InterNetNews.
Converted to POD by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

expireover(8),
inn.conf(5),
inndf(8),
makehistory(8).

=cut
