=head1 NAME

cnfsstat - Show usage of CNFS buffers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cnfsstat> [B<-ahpPsv>] [B<-c> I<class>] [B<-l> [I<seconds>]] [B<-m> I<buffer>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<cnfsstat> reads I<pathetc>/cycbuff.conf and I<pathetc>/storage.conf
to determine which CNFS buffers are available.  It then reads the specified
cyclic buffers and shows their usage status.  I<cnfsstat> can be invoked from
B<rc.news> if I<docnfsstat> is set to true in F<inn.conf>, and the result is
written to syslog(3).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a>

Besides its usual output, I<cnfsstat> prints the age of the oldest article
in the cycbuff.  You may also want to use the B<-v> flag to see extended
consistency checks.

=item B<-c> I<class>

Only information for the specified class is printed.

=item B<-h>

Print usage information and exit.

=item B<-l> [I<seconds>]

With this option, I<cnfsstat> prints a status snapshot every I<seconds>,
and only exits if an error occurs.  When unspecified, the default interval
is C<600> seconds.

=item B<-m> I<buffer>

Print information about the specified buffer in a format suitable for MRTG.

=item B<-p>

Print an MRTG config file.

=item B<-P>

Write PID into I<pathrun>/cnfsstat.pid.

=item B<-s>

Write output to syslog(3) instead of standard output.

=item B<-v>

Write additional information, especially about consistency checks for article
storage and the F<history> file.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Katsuhiro Kondou <kondou@nec.co.jp> for InterNetNews.  Converted
to POD by Julien Elie.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

cycbuff.conf(5), history(5), inn.conf(5), rc.news(8), storage.conf(5).

=cut
