=head1 NAME

controlchan - Channel-fed control message handler

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<controlchan> [B<-ch>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<controlchan> removes the responsibility for handling control messages
(except cancels) from B<innd> and instead processes them from a channel
or file feed.

The two Perl modules C<Encode> and C<MIME::Parser> are required by
B<controlchan>.

To reduce load, B<controlchan> keeps a copy of F<control.ctl> and
F<control.ctl.local> in memory and checks permissions (including any required
PGP headers) before any scripts are called.  These two configuration
files are automatically reloaded when B<controlchan> notices they have
been modified.  Also, the default case of an unrecognized control article
is handled internally.  The C<drop> case is handled with far less fuss.

Normally, B<controlchan> is invoked by B<innd> as configured in F<newsfeeds>.
An example entry is below.  Make sure that the newsgroup C<control.cancel>
exists so that B<controlchan> does not have to scan through cancels,
which it will not be processing anyway.

    controlchan!\
        :!*,control,control.*,!control.cancel\
        :AC,Tc,Wnsm\
        :<pathbin in inn.conf>/controlchan

B<controlchan> can also be manually invoked with a mere path to a file
(containing a complete control article with its headers and its body)
or a token on its standard input:

    echo '/path/to/a/control/article' | controlchan
    echo '@0303465234000000000000235AE000000002@' | controlchan

Note that in the (very, very unlikely) event that you need to process
ihave/sendme control messages, be sure that I<logipaddr> is set to false
in F<inn.conf>, because in this case B<controlchan> needs a site name,
not an IP address.

B<controlchan> tries to report all log messages through syslog(3),
unless connected to an interactive terminal.  To enable syslog(3)'ing for
versions of Perl prior to 5.6.0, you will need to have run B<h2ph> on your system
include files at some point (this is required to make C<Sys::Syslog> work).
If you have not done so, do this:

    cd /usr/include
    h2ph * sys/*

If you run FreeBSD, you will need to run the following in addition:

    h2ph machine/*

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-c>

By default, B<controlchan> does not process articles whose Date:
or Injection-Date: header fields are too far in the past (more than
I<artcutoff> days, as set in F<inn.conf>) or one day in the future.
It allows to prevent a malicious replay of old control articles.

Using the B<-c> flag disables this check on the cutoff date.

=item B<-h>

Gives usage information.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Katsuhiro Kondou <kondou@nec.co.jp> for InterNetNews.  Converted to
POD by Julien Elie.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

control.ctl(5), inn.conf(5).

=cut
