=head1 NAME

control.ctl - Specify handling of Usenet control messages

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The file I<pathetc>/control.ctl is used to determine what action is taken
when a control message is received.  It is read by B<controlchan>, which
is normally invoked as a channel program by B<innd>.  When F<control.ctl>
is modified, B<controlchan> notices this automatically and reloads it.

If a F<control.ctl.local> file exists in I<pathetc>, it is read by
B<controlchan> after F<control.ctl> (the resulting behaviour is as
though the contents of F<control.ctl.local> were at the end of
F<control.ctl>).  This local file is formatted like F<control.ctl>
and is intended to contain local customization.  It is also
automatically reloaded when modified.

Blank lines and lines beginning with a number sign (C<#>) are ignored.
All other lines should consist of four fields separated by colons:

    <type>:<from>:<newsgroups>:<action>

Lines are matched in order and the last matching line in the file will
be used, except for checkgroups messages which are handled differently
(every matching line is used).

The first field, <type>, is the type of control message for which this
line is valid.  It should either be the name of a control message or the
word C<all> to indicate that it applies to all control messages.  Besides,
the following special types are understood:

=over 4

=item B</encoding/>

This type specifies the encoding of newgroup and checkgroups control
messages so that new descriptions could be decoded the right way.

    /encoding/:*:cn.*:gb18030

means that a description for a newsgroup in the Chinese cn.*
hierarchy will be decoded as though it were encoded in GB18030,
unless a charset is specified in the control message (in such a case,
the charset mentioned in the message is used).  However, it is possible
to override the mentioned charset if C<=force> is appended after
the encoding.  For instance,

    /encoding/:*:scout.forum.chinese:big5=force

means that the description for scout.forum.chinese will always
be decoded as though it were encoded in Big5, no matter the charset
of the corresponding control message.

The default value when no encoding is mentioned (or when the
specified encoding is unknown) is C<CP1252>.

The last matching line for a given newsgroup name in F<control.ctl>
will be used.

=item B</localencoding/>

When this type is used, the line consist of only two fields.  The default
value when this type does not appear in F<control.ctl> (or when the
specified charset is unknown) is equivalent to:

    /localencoding/:utf-8

It means that new descriptions in the F<newsgroups> file will be written
using UTF-8.  And B<controlchan> will try to read existing descriptions,
so as to see whether they should be updated, as though they were encoded
in UTF-8.

The last matching line in F<control.ctl> will be used.

=item B</maxdocheckgroups/>

This type specifies the maximum number of changes that could be made
at one time by a checkgroups before bailing and mailing the changes
to the admin if no log file was specified.  The default value is C<10>.

    /maxdocheckgroups/:*:*:10
    /maxdocheckgroups/:*:fr.*:20

Such a configuration means that a checkgroups containing 15 changes
for the French fr.* hierarchy (newgroups to add, remove or change
the status) will be automatically honoured whereas a checkgroups
containing 15 changes for france.* will only have the required
changes mailed or logged.

The last matching line for a given newsgroup name in F<control.ctl>
will be used.

=back

The second field, <from>, is a shell-style pattern that matches the e-mail
address of the person posting the message (with the address first
converted to lowercase).  The matching is done with rules equivalent to
those of the shell's I<case> statement; see sh(1) for more details.

If the control message is a newgroup or rmgroup, the third field,
<newsgroups>, is a shell-style pattern matching the newsgroup affected
by the control message (especially C<?> matches exactly one character,
C<*> matches zero or more characters and C<|> permits to match several
patterns on the same line S<-- for> instance C<comp.*|humanities.*>
matches every newsgroup whose name begins with C<comp.> or C<humanities.>).
If the control message is a checkgroups, the third field is a shell-style
pattern matching the newsgroups that should be processed for checking.
If the control message is of any other type, the third field is ignored.

The fourth field, <action>, specifies what action to take with control
messages that match this line.  The following actions are understood:

=over 4

=item B<doit>

The action requested by the control message should be performed.  It
means that the change will be silently performed.  For checkgroups messages,
depending on the value of B</maxdocheckgroups/>, the shell commands that
should be run may be mailed to the news administrator (the argument to
B<--with-news-master> given at configure time, C<usenet> by default)
instead of being performed.

If you always want notification of actions taken, use C<doit=mail> instead
(see below).

=item B<doifarg>

If the control message has an argument, this is equivalent to B<doit>.  If
it does not have an argument, this is equivalent to B<mail>.  This is only
useful for entries for sendsys control messages, allowing a site to
request its own F<newsfeeds> entry by posting a C<sendsys mysite> control
message, but not allowing the entire F<newsfeeds> file to be sent.  This
was intended to partially counter so-called "sendsys bombs", where forged
sendsys control messages were used to mailbomb people.

Processing sendsys control messages is not recommended even with this
work-around unless they are authenticated in some fashion.  The risk of
having news servers turned into anonymous mail bombing services is too
high.

=item B<doit>=I<file>

The action is performed as in B<doit>, and additionally a log entry is
written to the specified log file I<file>.  If I<file> is the word
C<mail>, the log entry is mailed to the news administrator instead.  An
empty string is equivalent to F</dev/null> and says to log nothing.

If I<file> starts with a slash, it is taken as the absolute filename to
use for the log file.  Otherwise, the filename is formed by prepending
I<pathlog> and a slash, and appending C<.log>.  In other words, an action
of C<doit=newgroup> will log to I<pathlog>/newgroup.log.

=item B<drop>

No action is taken and the message is ignored.  For checkgroups messages,
it means that the newsgroups mentioned will be considered as not existent
in the checkgroups for its subsequent process.

    checkgroups:*:comp.*:doit
    checkgroups:*:*binaries*:drop

will for instance remove every newsgroup whose name contains C<binaries>
in the comp.* hierarchy, even though such groups are mentioned in the
checkgroups.  (In that example, the removal is performed by the B<doit>
action because B<drop> does nothing by itself.)

=item B<verify-*>

If the action starts with the string C<verify->, as in:

    verify-news.announce.newgroups

then PGP verification of the control message will be done and the user ID
of the key of the authenticated signer will be checked against the
expected identity defined by the rest of the string
(C<news.announce.newgroups> in the above example).  This verification is
done via B<pgpverify>; see pgpverify(8) for more details.

If no logging is specified (with =I<file> as mentioned below), logging will
be done the same as with B<doit> as described above.

=item B<verify-*>=B<mail>

PGP verification is done as for the B<verify-*> action described above, and
notification of successful newgroup and rmgroup control messages and the
output of checkgroups messages will be mailed to the news administrator.
(In the case of checkgroups messages, this means that the shell script that
should be run will be mailed to the administrator.  The subject of the
mail will contain information on whether the script has already been run,
depending on the value of B</maxdocheckgroups/>.)

=item B<verify-*>=I<file>

PGP verification is done as for the B<verify-*> action described above,
and a log entry is written to the specified file as described in
B<doit>=I<file> above.  (In the case of checkgroups messages, this means
that the shell script output of the checkgroups message will be written to
that file.  The initial line of the log will contain information on whether
the script has already been run, depending on the value of
B</maxdocheckgroups/>.)

=item B<log>

A one-line log message is sent to standard error.  B<innd> normally
directs this to I<pathlog>/errlog.

=item B<log>=I<file>

A log entry is written to the specified log file, which is interpreted as
in B<doit>=I<file> described above.

=item B<mail>

A mail message is sent to the news administrator without taking any other
action.

=back

One of the difference between a B<doit> or B<verify> action and a B<mail>
action for a checkgroups control message lies in what e-mail is sent; B<doit>
or B<verify> will mail the news administrator a shell script (which may
have already been run) to create, delete, or modify newsgroups to match
the checkgroups message, whereas B<mail> will just mail relevant lines
of the checkgroups for manual processing by the news administrator.

Use of the B<verify> action for processing newgroup, rmgroup and
checkgroups messages is STRONGLY recommended.  Abuse of control messages
is rampant, and authentication via PGP signature is currently the only
reliable way to be sure that a control message comes from who it claims to
be from.  Most major hierarchies are now issuing PGP-authenticated control
messages.

In order to use B<verify> actions, the PGP key ring of the news user must
be populated with the PGP keys of the hierarchy maintainers whose control
messages you want to honour.  For more details on PGP-authenticated control
messages and the URL for downloading the PGP keys of major hierarchies,
see pgpverify(8).

Control messages of type cancel are handled internally by B<innd> and
cannot be affected by any of the mechanisms described here.

=head1 EXAMPLES

With the following three lines in F<control.ctl>:

    newgroup:*:*:drop
    newgroup:group-admin@isc.org:comp.*:verify-news.announce.newgroups
    newgroup:kre@munnari.oz.au:aus.*:mail

a newgroup coming from C<group-admin@isc.org> will be honoured if it is for
a newsgroup in the comp.* hierarchy and if it has a valid signature
corresponding to the PGP key with a user ID of C<news.announce.newgroups>.
If any newgroup claiming to be from C<kre@munnari.oz.au> for a newsgroup
in the aus.* hierarchy is received, it too will be honoured.  All other
newgroup messages will be ignored.

Besides, if a F<control.ctl.local> file exists and contains:

    newgroup:*:comp.lang.*:drop

then a newgroup control article for comp.lang.awk will not be honoured
even though it comes from C<group-admin@isc.org> with a valid signature.

As for checkgroups, suppose your news server contains these groups for foo.*,
all of them being unmoderated (C<y> status in the F<active> file):

    foo.bar1
    foo.bar2.first
    foo.bar2.second
    foo.bar2.third
    foo.bar3
    foo.bar3.first
    foo.bar3.second
    foo.bar5

and you receive the following checkgroups by <foo@bar.com> for foo.*:

    foo.bar1          A valid newsgroup.
    foo.bar3.first    Only one newsgroup in foo.bar3.*.
    foo.bar4          A newsgroup you want.
    foo.bar5          A newsgroup you do not want.
    foo.bar5.first    Another newsgroup you do not want.

with the following F<control.ctl> entries:

    /maxdocheckgroups/:*:foo.*:2

    checkgroups:foo@bar.com:foo.*:verify-key-foo
    checkgroups:foo@bar.com:foo.bar2.*:doit
    checkgroups:foo@bar.com:foo.bar3.*:mail
    checkgroups:foo@bar.com:foo.bar4|foo.bar4.*:doit
    checkgroups:foo@bar.com:foo.bar5|foo.bar5.*:drop

Then, as F<control.ctl> is processed from bottom, here is what happens:

=over 4

=item 1.

The newsgroups foo.bar5 and foo.bar5.first are marked as unwanted.  But
nothing is done yet:  other F<control.ctl> entries have to be processed
with a real action and a set of newsgroups containing foo.bar5 and
foo.bar5.first.

=item 2.

The newsgroup foo.bar4 is silently created on the news server, with
the description "A newsgroup you want." added to the F<newsgroups>
file.  In the absence of encoding values (either in the checkgroups
message or in B</encoding/> and B</localencoding>), the default is
to decode the sentence as CP1242 and reencode it as UTF-8.

If C<doit=mail> was used, a mail would be sent to the news administrator
to inform him that foo.bar4 was successfully created.

=item 3.

The newsgroup foo.bar3.second is no longer present.  A mail is sent
to the news administrator with a shell script to execute.  When it is
manually executed, foo.bar3.second will be removed.

Note that the descriptions are handled differently and have already
been updated without any manual intervention (foo.bar3.first now
has the description "Only one newsgroup in foo.bar3.*." and
foo.bar3.second no longer has a description).

=item 4.

The newsgroups foo.bar2.first, foo.bar2.second and foo.bar2.third
are no longer present.  However, as the maximum number of changes
that could be made at one time by a checkgroups before bailing
and mailing the changes to the news administrator is 2, these
newsgroups are not removed.  A mail is sent with a shell script
to manually execute in order to remove these groups from
the news server.

Note that their descriptions are removed from the F<newsgroups> file,
as well as any other possible descriptions for obsolete newsgroups
in foo.bar2.*.

=item 5.

The remaining entry is executed if the PGP verification of the
checkgroups message is successful.  Otherwise, nothing is done
(especially, foo.bar5 remains on the news server).

In case the PGP signature is verified, foo.bar3 and foo.bar5 are
removed from the news server.  This entry acts upon newsgroups
marked as dropped in its scope and newsgroups not already dealt
with by previous F<control.ctl> entries (like foo.bar3 because
only foo.bar3.* was previously checked).

Note that if you had wanted to keep foo.bar3 or foo.bar5, you
could have added them to the F<localgroups> file in I<pathetc>.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten in
POD by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

controlchan(8), inn.conf(5), innd(8), newsfeeds(5), newsgroups(5),
pgpverify(8), sh(1).

=cut
