=head1 NAME

cvtbatch - Convert Usenet batch files to INN format

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cvtbatch> [B<-w> I<items>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cvtbatch> reads standard input as a sequence of lines, converts
each line, and writes it to standard output.  It is used to convert
simple batch files that contain just the storage API token of
an article to INN batch files that contain additional information
about each article.

Each line is taken as a storage API token indicating a Usenet article.
Only the first word of each line is parsed; anything following whitespace
is ignored.  Lines not starting with a valid token are also silently ignored.

If the input file consists of a series of message-IDs, then use
B<grephistory> with the B<-s> flag piped into B<cvtbatch>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-w> I<items>

The B<-w> flag specifies how each output line should be written.
The items for this flag should be chosen from the C<W> flag items
as specified in newsfeeds(5).  They may be chosen from the following
set:

    b    Size of the article headers in bytes.
    f    Storage API token of the article (same as "n").
    m    Article message-ID.
    n    Storage API token of the article.
    t    Arrival time of the article as seconds since epoch.

The default is C<nm>, that is to say the storage API token
followed by the message-ID of the article.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Converted
to POD by Julien Elie.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

grephistory(1), newsfeeds(5).

=cut
