=head1 NAME

cycbuff.conf - Configuration file for INN CNFS storage method

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This file defines the cyclical buffers that make up the storage pools for
CNFS (Cyclic News File System).  Some options controlling the behavior of
the CNFS storage system can also be set here.  F<cycbuff.conf> is required
if the CNFS (Cyclic News File System) storage method is used.  INN will
look for it in I<pathetc> (as set in F<inn.conf>).

CNFS stores articles in logical objects called I<metacycbuffs>.  Each
metacycbuff is in turn composed of one or more physical buffers called
I<cycbuffs>.  As articles are written to the metacycbuff, each article is
written to the next cycbuff in the list in a round-robin fashion (unless
C<sequential> mode is specified, in which case each cycbuff is filled
before moving on to the next).  This is so that you can distribute the
individual cycbuffs across multiple physical disks and balance the load
between them.  Note that in order to use any cycbuff larger than S<2 GB>,
you need to build INN with the B<--enable-largefiles> option.

For information about how to configure INN to use CNFS, see
storage.conf(5).

Blank lines and lines beginning with a hash sign (C<#>) are ignored.  All
other lines must be of one of the following forms:

    cycbuffupdate:<interval>
    refreshinterval:<interval>
    cycbuff:<name>:<file>:<size>
    metacycbuff:<name>:<buffer>[,<buffer>,...][:<mode>]

(where items enclosed in [] are optional).  Order is mostly not
significant, but all I<cycbuff> lines must occur before all I<metacycbuff>
lines.  Long lines can be continued on the next line by ending the line
with a backslash (C<\>).

=over 4

=item I<cycbuffupdate>:<interval>

Sets the number of articles written before the cycbuff header is
written back to disk to <interval>.  Under most operating systems, the
header doesn't have to be written to disk for the updated data to be
available to other processes on the same system that are reading articles
out of CNFS, but any accesses to the CNFS cycbuffs over NFS will only see
the data present at the last write of the header.  After a system crash,
all updates since the last write of the CNFS header may be lost.  The
default value, if this line is omitted, is C<25>, meaning that the header is
written to disk after every 25 articles stored in that cycbuff.

=item I<refreshinterval>:<interval>

Sets the interval (in seconds) between re-reads of the cycbuff header to
<interval>.  This primarily affects B<nnrpd> and controls the frequency
with which it updates its knowledge of the current contents of the CNFS
cycbuffs.  The default value, if this line is omitted, is C<30>.

=item I<cycbuff>:<name>:<file>:<size>

Configures a particular CNFS cycbuff.  <name> is a symbolic name for the
buffer, to be used later in a metacycbuff line.  It must be no longer than
seven characters.  <file> is the full path to the buffer file or block
device, and must be no longer than 63 characters.  <size> is the length of
the buffer in kilobytes (S<1 KB> is 1024 bytes).  If <file> is not a block
device, it should be S<< <size> * 1024 bytes >> long.

If you're trying to stay under S<2 GB>, keep your sizes below C<2097152>.

=item I<metacycbuff>:<name>:<buffer>[,<buffer>,...][:<mode>]

Specifies a collection of CNFS buffers that make up a single logical
storage location from the perspective of INN.  Metacycbuffs are referred
to in F<storage.conf> as storage locations for articles, so in order to
actually put articles in a cycbuff, it has to be listed as part of some
metacycbuff which is then referenced in F<storage.conf>.

<name> is the symbolic name of the metacycbuff, referred to in the options:
field of C<cnfs> entries in F<storage.conf>.  It must be no longer than
eight characters.  <buffer> is the name of a cycbuff (the <name> part of
a cycbuff line), and any number of cycbuffs may be specified, separated
by commas.

If there is more than one cycbuff in a metacycbuff, there are two ways
that INN can distribute articles between the cycbuffs.  The default mode,
C<INTERLEAVE>, stores the articles in each cycbuff in a round-robin fashion,
one article per cycbuff in the order listed.  If the cycbuffs are of
wildly different sizes, this can cause some of them to roll over much
faster than others, and it may not give the best performance depending on
your disk layout.  The other storage mode, C<SEQUENTIAL>, instead writes to
each cycbuff in turn until that cycbuff is full and then moves on to the
next one, returning to the first and starting a new cycle when the last
one is full.  To specify a mode rather than leaving it at the default, add
a colon and the mode (C<INTERLEAVE> or C<SEQUENTIAL>) at the end of the
metacycbuff line.

=back

B<innd> only reads F<cycbuff.conf> on startup, so if you change anything
in this file and want B<innd> to pick up the changes, you have to use
C<ctlinnd xexec innd>; C<ctlinnd reload ''> is not sufficient.

When articles are stored, the cycbuff into which they're stored is saved
as part of the article token.  In order for INN to retrieve articles from
a cycbuff, that cycbuff must be listed in F<cycbuff.conf>.  However, if
INN should not write to a cycbuff, it doesn't need to be (and shouldn't
be) listed in a metacycbuff.

This provides an easy way to retire a cycbuff.  Just remove it from its
metacycbuff, leaving in the cycbuff line, and restart B<innd> (with, for
example, C<ctlinnd xexec innd>).  No new articles will be put into the
cycbuff, but neither will any articles expire from it.  After you no
longer need the articles in the cycbuff, just remove it entirely from
F<cycbuff.conf>.  Then all of the articles will appear to have been
deleted to INN, and the next nightly expire run will clean up any
remaining references to them.

Adding a new cycbuff just requires creating it (see below), adding a
cycbuff line, adding it to a metacycbuff, and then restarting B<innd>.

=head1 CREATING CYCBUFFS

When creating a new cycbuff, there are two different methods for creating
the buffers in which the articles will be stored.

=over 4

=item 1.

Create a large file on top of a regular file system.  The easiest way to
do this is probably with dd(1), using a command like:

    dd if=/dev/zero of=/path/to/cycbuff bs=1024 count=<size>

where <size> is the size from the cycbuff line in F<cycbuff.conf>.
F<INSTALL> contains a script that will generate these commands for you
from your F<cycbuff.conf> file.

This is the simplest method, but has the disadvantage that very large
files on regular file systems can be fairly slow to access, particularly
at the end of the file, and INN incurs unnecessary file system overhead
when accessing the cycbuff.

=item 2.

Use block devices directly.  If your operating system allows you to call
mmap() on block devices (Solaris and recent versions of Linux do, FreeBSD
at last report does not), this is the recommended method since you can
avoid all of the native file system overhead.  Note, however, that each
cycbuff cannot be larger than S<2 GB> with this method, so if you need a lot
of spool space, you may have to go back to disk files.

Partition the disk to make each partition equal to or smaller than S<2 GB>.
If you're using Solaris, set up your partitions to avoid the first
cylinder of the disk (or otherwise the cycbuff header will overwrite the
disk partition table and render the cycbuffs inaccessible).  Then, create
device files for each block device you're going to use.

It's not recommended to use the block device files in F</dev>, since the
news system doesn't have permission to write to them and changing the
permissions of the system device files may affect something else.
Instead, use mknod(1) to create a new set of block devices (in somewhere
like I<pathspool>/cycbuffs that's only writable by the news user).  To do
this, run C<ls -Ll> on the devices in F</dev> that correspond to the block
devices that you want to use.  The major and minor device numbers are in
the fifth and sixth columns (right before the date), respectively.  Then
run mknod like:

    mknod <file> b <major> <minor>

where <file> is the path to the device to create (matching the <file> part
of the cycbuff line) and <major> and <minor> are the major and minor
device numbers as discovered above.

Here's a short script to do this when given the path to the system device
file as an argument:

    #!/bin/sh
    base=`echo "$1" | sed 's%.*/%%'`
    major=`ls -Ll "$1" | awk '{print $5}' | tr -d ,`
    minor=`ls -Ll "$1" | awk '{print $6}`
    mkdir -p /usr/local/news/spool/cycbuffs
    mknod /usr/local/news/spool/cycbuffs/"$base" b "$major" "$minor"
    chown news:news /usr/local/news/spool/cycbuffs/"$base"
    chmod 644 /usr/local/news/spool/cycbuffs/"$base"

Make sure that the created files are owned by the news user and news
group, as specified at configure time (the default being C<news> for
both).  Also make sure that the permissions on the devices allow the news
user to read and write, and if you want other users on the system to be
able to use B<sm> to retrieve articles, make sure they're world-readable.

=back

Once you have everything configured properly and you start B<innd>, you
should see messages in F<news.notice> that look like:

    innd: CNFS-sm No magic cookie found for cycbuff ONE, initializing

where C<ONE> will be whatever you called your cycbuff.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Katsuhiro Kondou <kondou@nec.co.jp> for InterNetNews.
Rewritten into POD by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

ctlinnd(8), innd(8), nnrpd(8), sm(1), storage.conf(5).

=cut
