=head1 NAME

docheckgroups - Process checkgroups and output a list of changes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<docheckgroups> [B<-u>] [I<include-pattern> [I<exclude-pattern>]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<docheckgroups> is usually run by B<controlchan> in order to process
checkgroups control messages.  It reads a list of newsgroups along
with their descriptions on its standard input.  That list should
be formatted like the newsgroups(5) file:  each line contains the
name of a newsgroup followed by one or more tabulations and its
description.

B<docheckgroups> will only check the presence of newsgroups
which match I<include-pattern> (an B<egrep> expression like
C<^comp\..*$> for newsgroups starting with C<comp.>) and which
do not match I<exclude-pattern> (also an B<egrep> expression)
except for newsgroups mentioned in the I<pathetc>/localgroups file.
This file is also formatted like the newsgroups(5) file and
should contain local newsgroups which would otherwise be mentioned
for removal.  There is no need to put local newsgroups of hierarchies
for which no checkgroups control messages are sent, unless if
you manually process checkgroups texts for them.  Lines beginning
with a hash sign (C<#>) are not taken into account in this file.
All the newsgroups and descriptions mentioned in I<pathetc>/localgroups
are appended to the processed checkgroups.

If I<exclude-pattern> is given, I<include-pattern> should also
be given before (you can use an empty string ("") if you want
to include all the newsgroups).  Be that as it may, B<docheckgroups>
will only check newsgroups in the top-level hierarchies which are
present in the checkgroups.

Then, B<docheckgroups> checks the F<active> and F<newsgroups> files
and displays on its standard output a list of changes, if any.  It
does not change anything by default; it only points out what should
be changed:

=over 2

=item *

Newsgroups which should be removed (they are in the F<active> file
but not in the checkgroups) and the relevant B<ctlinnd> commands
to achieve that;

=item *

Newsgroups which should be added (they are not in the F<active> file
but in the checkgroups) and the relevant B<ctlinnd> commands
to achieve that;

=item *

Newsgroups which are incorrectly marked as moderated or unmoderated
(they are both in the F<active> file and the checkgroups but their
status differs) and the relevant B<ctlinnd> commands to fix that;

=item *

Descriptions which should be removed (they are in the F<newsgroups> file
but not in the checkgroups);

=item *

Descriptions which should be added (they are not in the F<newsgroups> file
but in the checkgroups).

=back

The output of B<docheckgroups> can be fed into B<mod-active> (it will
pause the news server, update the F<active> file accordingly, reload it
and resume the work of the news server) or into the shell (commands for
B<ctlinnd> will be processed one by one).  In order to update the
F<newsgroups> file, the B<-u> flag must be given to B<docheckgroups>.

When processing a checkgroups manually, it is always advisable to first
check the raw output of B<docheckgroups>.  Then, if everything looks
fine, use B<mod-active> and the B<-u> flag.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-u>

If this flag is given, B<docheckgroups> will update the F<newsgroups> file:
it removes obsolete descriptions and adds new ones.  It also sorts
this file alphabetically and improves its general format (see newsgroups(5)
for an explanation of the preferred number of tabulations).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

So as to better understand how B<docheckgroups> works, here are examples
with the following F<active>:

    a.first 0000000000 0000000001 y
    a.second.announce 0000000000 0000000001 y
    a.second.group 0000000000 0000000001 y
    b.additional 0000000000 0000000001 y
    b.third 0000000000 0000000001 y
    c.fourth 0000000000 0000000001 y

the following F<newsgroups> file (using tabulations):

    a.first		First group.
    a.second.announce	Announce group.
    a.second.group	Second group.
    b.third		Third group.
    c.fourth		Fourth group.

and the following F<localgroups> file (using tabulations):

    b.additional	A local newsgroup I want to keep.

The checkgroups we process is in the file F<test> which contains:

    a.first		First group.
    a.second.announce	Announce group. (Moderated)
    a.second.group	Second group.
    b.third		Third group.
    c.fourth		Fourth group.

If we run:

    cat test | docheckgroups

B<docheckgroups> will output that a.second.announce is incorrectly marked
as unmoderated and that its description is obsolete.  Besides, two
new descriptions will be mentioned for addition (the new one for
a.second.announce and the missing description for b.additional S<-- it>
should indeed be in the F<newsgroups> file and not only in F<localgroups>).
Now that we have checked the output of B<docheckgroups> and that we agree
with the changes, we run it with the B<-u> flag to update the F<newsgroups>
file and we redirect the standard output to B<mod-active> to update the
F<active> file:

    cat test | docheckgroups -u | mod-active

That's all!

Now, suppose we run:

    cat test | docheckgroups "^c\..*$"

Nothing is output (indeed, everything is fine for the c.* hierarchy).
It would have been similar if the F<test> file had only contained
the checkgroups for the c.* hierarchy (B<docheckgroups> would not
have checked a.* and b.*, even if they had been in I<include-pattern>).

In order to check both a.* and c.*, you can run:

    cat test | docheckgroups "^a\..*$|^c\..*$"

And if you want to check a.* but not a.second.*, you can run:

    cat test | docheckgroups "^a\..*$" "^a\.second\..*$"

In our example, B<docheckgroups> will then mention a.second.announce and
a.second.group for removal since they are in the F<active> file (the
same goes for their descriptions).  Notwithstanding, if you do want to keep
a.second.announce, just add this group to F<localgroups> and
B<docheckgroups> will no longer mention it for removal.

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item I<pathbin>/docheckgroups

The Shell script itself used to process checkgroups.

=item I<pathetc>/localgroups

The list of local newsgroups along with their descriptions.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Documentation written by Julien Elie <julien@trigofacile.com> for InterNetNews.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

active(5), controlchan(8), ctlinnd(8), mod-active(8), newsgroups(5).

=cut
