=head1 NAME

getlist - Get a list from an NNTP server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<getlist> [B<-AR>] [B<-h> I<host>] [B<-p> I<port>]
[I<list> [I<pattern> [I<types>]]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<getlist> obtains a list from an NNTP server and sends it to standard
output.  I<list> may be one of C<active> (which is the default value),
C<active.times>, C<distrib.pats>, or C<newsgroups>.  C<active> contains
a list of all newsgroups carried by the server with the high and low article
numbers in the group, and the group status field.  C<active.times> is a list of
newsgroups, their creation times (in seconds since epoch), and the creator
of the group.  C<distrib.pats> is a list of relevant distributions and
the newsgroups they apply to.  C<newsgroups> is a list of newsgroups
along with their short descriptions.

For more information on the formats of these files, see active(5),
active.times(5), distrib.pats(5) and newsgroups(5).

The listing files other than the F<active> file are common extensions to the
NNTP protocol and may not be available on all servers.  For instance, C<counts>
C<distributions>, C<headers>, C<moderators>, C<motd>, C<overview.fmt> and
C<subscriptions>, amongst other, may be available.  Moreover, a uwildmat(3)
pattern I<pattern> may also be usable for some of these listing files.

For more information on the formats of these files, see distributions(5),
moderators(5), motd.news(5) and subscriptions(5).  The overview fields
obtained with C<overview.fmt> are the ones for which the overview database
is consistent (see I<extraoverviewadvertised> in F<inn.conf> for more
information).  The list obtained with C<headers> contains the fields
that can be retrieved using the HDR command (I<pattern> can then be
either C<msgid> or C<range>).  The list obtained with C<counts> is like
the C<active> one except that the number of articles in a newsgroup
is mentioned just before the flag of this newsgroup.

The I<pattern> parameter may be used with a I<list> value of C<active>,
C<active.times> or C<newsgroups> to limit the output.  If given, only
entries corresponding to newsgroups that match the uwildmat(3) pattern
I<pattern> will be printed.

If the I<list> parameter is C<active>, a third parameter, I<types>, may
also be used to restrict the list.  If given, only entries corresponding
to newsgroups with a newsgroup mode found in I<types> will be printed.
For example, a I<types> value of C<y> would only show unmoderated groups,
and a I<types> value of C<ym> would show all unmoderated and moderated
groups but not aliased groups or groups that disallow postings.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-A>

Try to authenticate using the username and password information in
passwd.nntp(5) before issuing the LIST command.

=item B<-h> I<host>

Connect to the server I<host> rather than to the value of I<server> in
F<inn.conf> or the value of the NNTPSERVER environment variable.

=item B<-p> I<port>

Connect to the port I<port>, which is by default C<119>.

=item B<-R>

Try to switch to B<nnrpd> with a MODE READER command before issuing the
LIST request.  It can be useful in case a feeding access exists for
the news server:  more information can be retrieved from B<nnrpd>,
compared with B<innd>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command will obtain the one-line descriptions of all
newsgroups found on UUNET:

    getlist -h news.uu.net newsgroups

The following command will show the active file entries for all moderated
comp.* groups on the default server:

    getlist active 'comp.*' m

The following command lists all groups where local postings are permitted,
are moderated or aliased:

    getlist active '*' ym=

Note that the wildcard character C<*> has to be quoted by simple quotes
to protect it from the shell.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Landon Curt Noll <chongo@toad.com> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten
in POD by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

active(5), active.times(5), distrib.pats(5), distributions(5), inn.conf(5),
moderators(5), motd.news(5), newsgroups(5), nnrpd(8), passwd.nntp(5),
subscriptions(5), uwildmat(3).

=cut
