=head1 NAME

hissqlite-convert - Convert an INN history database to the hissqlite method

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hissqlite-convert> [B<-m> I<srcmethod>] I<srcpath> I<dstpath>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<hissqlite-convert> performs a faithful, one-time migration of an existing
INN history database into a new hissqlite (SQLite) database.  It reads every
entry from the source history through the standard history interface and
bulk-loads it into a freshly created hissqlite database.

The conversion is keyed by hash: the history records only the MD5 of each
Message-ID, not the Message-ID itself, so the original Message-IDs cannot be
recovered.  Unlike a from-spool rebuild with B<makehistory>, this preserves
both the exact arrival, posting, and expiration timestamps and the
I<remembered> (token-less) entries, which a rebuild cannot reconstruct.

The new database is built in a temporary file and atomically renamed into
place only on full success, so an interrupted or failed run never leaves a
usable-but-incomplete destination.  B<hissqlite-convert> refuses to run if
the destination already exists.

B<innd> must not be writing the source history while it is being converted.
After a successful conversion, set I<hismethod> to C<hissqlite> in
F<inn.conf> and restart INN; see hissqlite(5).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-m> I<srcmethod>

The history method of the source database.  The default is C<hisv6>.

=back

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item I<srcpath>

The path to the source history.  For C<hisv6>, it is I<pathdb>/F<history>
without any extension, as given by the I<pathdb> parameter in F<inn.conf>.

=item I<dstpath>

The path of the hissqlite database to create.  A F<.sqlite> suffix is
appended, so I<dstpath> should match I<pathdb>/F<history> (the resulting file
is F<history.sqlite> in I<pathdb>).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Convert the default C<hisv6> history into a hissqlite database alongside it:

    hissqlite-convert /news/db/history /news/db/history

This creates F</news/db/history.sqlite>.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Kevin Bowling for InterNetNews.

=head1 SEE ALSO

hissqlite(5), hissqlite-util(8), history(5), inn.conf(5), makehistory(8).

=cut
