=head1 NAME

hissqlite-util - History manipulation utility for hissqlite

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<hissqlite-util> [B<-AcdhsvV>] [B<-O> I<order>] [B<-p> I<path>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<hissqlite-util> is an administrative interface to the hissqlite history
method for INN.  It only works on hissqlite history databases, not on any
other type of INN history.  It allows the administrator to audit the
database for problems, dump its contents, report entry counts and the
schema version, report database storage utilization, and vacuum the
database to reclaim free pages.

All actions except B<-v> are read-only, so it is safe to run them while
INN is running.  B<hissqlite-util> opens the database directly; because
B<innd> holds the write lock for only a single statement at a time, it
waits at most briefly for any in-progress write.

The B<-v> option rewrites the database file (SQLite C<VACUUM>) and needs
write access.  When B<innd> is running, B<hissqlite-util> pauses it for the
duration of the vacuum and resumes it afterwards.  When the news system is
stopped, the vacuum runs offline.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

The C<DBI> Perl module with the C<DBD::SQLite> driver must be installed for
this program to work.  They are present in most distributions as a package
named like C<libdbd-sqlite3-perl>, C<perl-DBD-SQLite> or C<p5-DBD-SQLite>.
They can also be directly installed from CPAN (C<DBI> and C<DBD-SQLite>
distributions available at L<https://metacpan.org/dist/DBI> and
L<https://metacpan.org/dist/DBD-SQLite>).

Naturally, a hissqlite history database also needs being in use, as detailed
in the hissqlite(5) manual page.

=head1 OPTIONS

Only one action may be given at a time.  With no action, B<-A> is assumed.

=over 4

=item B<-A>

Audit the history database for problems and report them to standard error,
without trying to fix them.  This reports the schema version and entry
counts, checks for rows with a missing arrival time, and runs SQLite's
C<integrity_check>.  This is the default action.

=item B<-c>

Print the total, real (token-bearing), and remembered (token-less) entry
counts.

=item B<-d>

Dump all history records as text, one per line: the hash in hexadecimal,
the arrival, posting, and expiration timestamps (in seconds since epoch),
and the storage API token in its usual textual form, hexadecimal surrounded
with C<@> (or C<remembered> for a token-less entry).

=item B<-h>

Print a usage message and exit.

=item B<-O> I<order>

Sort history records by I<order> time when dumped with B<-d>.  Possible values
for I<order> are C<arrival>, C<expiration> and C<posting>.

When sorting by arrival or expiration time, history records with a similar
such time are then also sorted by posting time.  When sorting by posting time,
history records with a similar such time are then also sorted by arrival time.

=item B<-p> I<path>

Act on the F<history.sqlite> database in I<path> instead of the default
I<pathhistory> directory from F<inn.conf>.

=item B<-s>

Print database storage and history entry statistics.  The report contains
the SQLite and schema versions, journal and auto-vacuum modes, page usage,
database and journal file sizes, total, real and remembered entry counts,
the number of real entries with an explicit expiration (I<expires> greater
than zero; C<0> or C<NULL> means no article-level expiry), and the
arrival-time range.  It remains available when B<innd> is not running.

The database-derived values are collected from one consistent read snapshot.
Logical size is the page count multiplied by the page size.  Non-freelist
page capacity is an estimate based on SQLite's page accounting, not a measure
of how full each page is.  Freelist pages can be reused by later writes or
recovered with a full C<VACUUM> (see B<-v>).  File sizes are point-in-time
values and may change while B<innd> or another process is writing.  Files
that do not currently exist, such as a WAL or rollback journal, have a
reported size of zero.

=item B<-v>

Vacuum the history database: rewrite it with SQLite C<VACUUM> so freelist
pages are removed and the file shrinks toward its logical size.  Prints
page and freelist statistics before and after the rewrite.

A vacuum needs free disk space roughly equal to the current database file
size (SQLite builds a compact copy, then replaces the original).  On a
large history this can take a long time and will block other writers; when
B<innd> is running, it is paused for the duration.  Readers may block while
the exclusive rewrite runs.

Vacuuming is not needed in normal operation.  SQLite keeps deleted pages on
a freelist and reuses them for later inserts, so a steady-state spool that
expires roughly as much as it receives tends to stabilize near a high-water
mark size.  That high-water mark is usually desirable: the file does not
churn on every expire, and subsequent growth can reuse free pages without
extending the file.  Run B<-v> only when you deliberately want a smaller
file, for example after a large permanent reduction in retention (so the
spool will not grow back to the old size), after a bulk delete, or when
changing the page size (which requires a vacuum; see hissqlite(5)).

See also L</VACUUMING> in hissqlite(5).

=item B<-V>

Print the version of this tool and the database schema version.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Audit the history database for problems:

    hissqlite-util -A

Print entry counts for a database in F</news/db>:

    hissqlite-util -c -p /news/db

Dump history records by posting time:

    hissqlite-util -d -O posting

Print storage and entry statistics:

    hissqlite-util -s

After shrinking retention and letting expire finish, reclaim freelist space:

    hissqlite-util -v

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Kevin Bowling for InterNetNews.

=head1 SEE ALSO

hissqlite(5), inn.conf(5).

=cut
