=head1 INN Python Filtering and Authentication Support

This file documents INN's built-in optional support for Python article
filtering.  It is patterned after the Perl and (now obsolete) TCL hooks
previously added by Bob Heiney and Christophe Wolfhugel.

For this filter to work successfully, you will need to have at least
S<Python 1.5.2> installed.  You can obtain it from L<http://www.python.org/>.

The B<innd> Python interface and the original Python filtering documentation
were written by Greg Andruk (nee Fluffy) <gerglery@usa.net>.  The Python
authentication and authorization support for B<nnrpd> as well as the original
documentation for it were written by Ilya Etingof <ilya@glas.net> in
December 1999.

=head1 Installation

Once you have built and installed Python, you can cause INN to use it by
adding the B<--with-python> switch to your C<configure> command.  You will
need to have all the headers and libraries required for embedding Python
into INN; they can be found in Python development packages, which include
header files and static libraries.

You will then be able to use Python authentication, dynamic access group
generation and dynamic access control support in B<nnrpd> along with
filtering support in B<innd>.

See the ctlinnd(8) manual page to learn how to enable, disable and reload
Python filters on a running server (especially C<ctlinnd mode>,
C<ctlinnd python y|n> and C<ctlinnd reload filter.python 'reason'>).

Also, see the F<filter_innd.py>, F<nnrpd_auth.py>, F<nnrpd_access.py>
and F<nnrpd_dynamic.py> samples in your filters directory for
a demonstration of how to get all this working.

=head1 Writing an B<innd> filter

=head2 Introduction

You need to create a F<filter_innd.py> module in INN's filter directory
(see the I<pathfilter> setting in F<inn.conf>).  A heavily-commented sample
is provided; you can use it as a template for your own filter.  There is
also an F<INN.py> module there which is not actually used by INN; it is
there so you can test your module interactively.

First, define a class containing the methods you want to provide to B<innd>.
Methods B<innd> will use if present are:

=over 4

=item __init__(I<self>)

Not explicitly called by B<innd>, but will run whenever the filter module is
(re)loaded.  This is a good place to initialize constants or pick up where
C<filter_before_reload> or C<filter_close> left off.

=item filter_before_reload(I<self>)

This will execute any time a C<ctlinnd reload all 'reason'> or C<ctlinnd reload
filter.python 'reason'> command is issued.  You can use it to save statistics or
reports for use after reloading.

=item filter_close(I<self>)

This will run when a C<ctlinnd shutdown 'reason'> command is received.

=item filter_art(I<self>, I<art>)

I<art> is a dictionary containing an article's headers and body.  This method
is called every time B<innd> receives an article.  The following can be
defined:

    Also-Control, Approved, Bytes, Cancel-Key, Cancel-Lock,
    Content-Base, Content-Disposition, Content-Transfer-Encoding,
    Content-Type, Control, Date, Date-Received, Distribution, Expires,
    Face, Followup-To, From, In-Reply-To, Injection-Date, Injection-Info,
    Keywords, Lines, List-ID, Message-ID, MIME-Version, Newsgroups,
    NNTP-Posting-Date, NNTP-Posting-Host, Organization, Originator,
    Path, Posted, Posting-Version, Received, References, Relay-Version,
    Reply-To, Sender, Subject, Supersedes, User-Agent,
    X-Auth, X-Canceled-By, X-Cancelled-By, X-Complaints-To, X-Face,
    X-HTTP-UserAgent, X-HTTP-Via, X-Mailer, X-Modbot, X-Modtrace,
    X-Newsposter, X-Newsreader, X-No-Archive, X-Original-Message-ID,
    X-Original-Trace, X-Originating-IP, X-PGP-Key, X-PGP-Sig,
    X-Poster-Trace, X-Postfilter, X-Proxy-User, X-Submissions-To,
    X-Trace, X-Usenet-Provider, Xref, __BODY__, __LINES__.

Note that all the above values are as they arrived, not modified
by your INN (especially, the Xref: header, if present, is the one
of the remote site which sent you the article, and not yours).

These values will be buffer objects holding the contents of the
same named article headers, except for the special C<__BODY__> and C<__LINES__>
items.  Items not present in the article will contain C<None>.

C<art('__BODY__')> is a buffer object containing the article's entire body, and
C<art('__LINES__')> is an int holding B<innd>'s reckoning of the number of lines
in the article.  All the other elements will be buffers with the contents
of the same-named article headers.

The Newsgroups: header of the article is accessible inside the Python
filter as C<art['Newsgroups']>.

If you want to accept an article, return C<None> or an empty string.  To
reject, return a non-empty string.  The rejection strings will be shown to
local clients and your peers, so keep that in mind when phrasing your
rejection responses.

=item filter_messageid(I<self>, I<msgid>)

I<msgid> is a buffer object containing the ID of an article being offered by
IHAVE or CHECK.  Like with C<filter_art>, the message will be refused if
you return a non-empty string.  If you use this feature, keep it light
because it is called at a rather busy place in B<innd>'s main loop.  Also, do
not rely on this function alone to reject by ID; you should repeat the
tests in C<filter_art> to catch articles sent with TAKETHIS but no CHECK.

=item filter_mode(I<self>, I<oldmode>, I<newmode>, I<reason>)

When the operator issues a B<ctlinnd> C<pause>, C<throttle>, C<go>, C<shutdown>
or C<xexec> command, this function can be used to do something sensible in accordance
with the state change.  Stamp a log file, save your state on throttle,
etc.  I<oldmode> and I<newmode> will be strings containing one of the values in
(C<running>, C<throttled>, C<paused>, C<shutdown>, C<unknown>).  I<oldmode> is
the state B<innd> was in before B<ctlinnd> was run, I<newmode> is the state B<innd>
will be in after the command finishes.  I<reason> is the comment string
provided on the B<ctlinnd> command line.

=back

=head2 How to use these methods with B<innd>

To register your methods with B<innd>, you need to create an instance of your
class, import the built-in INN module, and pass the instance to
C<INN.set_filter_hook>.  For example:

    class Filter:
        def filter_art(self, art):
            ...
            blah blah
            ...

        def filter_messageid(self, id):
            ...
            yadda yadda
            ...

    import INN
    myfilter = Filter()
    INN.set_filter_hook(myfilter)

When writing and testing your Python filter, don't be afraid to make use
of C<try:>/C<except:> and the provided C<INN.syslog> function.  stdout and stderr
will be disabled, so your filter will die silently otherwise.

Also, remember to try importing your module interactively before loading
it, to ensure there are no obvious errors.  One typo can ruin your whole
filter.  A dummy F<INN.py> module is provided to facilitate testing outside
the server.  To test, change into your filter directory and use a command
like:

    python -ic 'import INN, filter_innd'

You can define as many or few of the methods listed above as you want in
your filter class (it is fine to define more methods for your own use; B<innd>
will not be using them but your filter can).  If you I<do> define the above
methods, GET THE PARAMETER COUNTS RIGHT.  There are checks in B<innd> to see
whether the methods exist and are callable, but if you define one and get the
parameter counts wrong, B<innd> WILL DIE.  You have been warned.  Be careful
with your return values, too.  The C<filter_art> and C<filter_messageid>
methods have to return strings, or C<None>.  If you return something like an
int, B<innd> will I<not> be happy.

=head2 A note regarding buffer objects

Buffer objects are cousins of strings, new in S<Python 1.5.2>.  Using buffer
objects may take some getting used to, but we can create buffers much faster
and with less memory than strings.

For most of the operations you will perform in filters (like C<re.search>,
C<string.find>, C<md5.digest>) you can treat buffers just like strings, but
there are a few important differences you should know about:

    # Make a string and two buffers.
    s = "abc"
    b = buffer("def")
    bs = buffer("abc")

    s == bs          # - This is false because the types differ...
    buffer(s) == bs  # - ...but this is true, the types now agree.
    s == str(bs)     # - This is also true, but buffer() is faster.
    s[:2] == bs[:2]  # - True.  Buffer slices are strings.

    # While most string methods will take either a buffer or a string,
    # string.join (in the string module) insists on using only strings.
    import string
    string.join([str(b), s], '.')  # Returns 'def.abc'.
    '.'.join([str(b), s])          # Returns 'def.abc' too.
    '.'.join([b, s])               # This raises a TypeError.

    e = s + b                      # This raises a TypeError, but...

    # ...these two both return the string 'abcdef'.  The first one
    # is faster -- choose buffer() over str() whenever you can.
    e = buffer(s) + b
    f = s + str(b)

    g = b + '>'                    # This is legal, returns the string 'def>'.

=head2 Functions supplied by the built-in B<innd> module

Besides C<INN.set_filter_hook> which is used to register your methods
with B<innd> as it has already been explained above, the following functions
are available from Python scripts:

=over 4

=item addhist(I<message-id>)

=item article(I<message-id>)

=item cancel(I<message-id>)

=item havehist(I<message-id>)

=item hashstring(I<string>)

=item head(I<message-id>)

=item newsgroup(I<groupname>)

=item syslog(I<level>, I<message>)

=back

Therefore, not only can B<innd> use Python, but your filter can use some of
B<innd>'s features too.  Here is some sample Python code to show what you get
with the previously listed functions.

    import INN

    # Python's native syslog module isn't compiled in by default,
    # so the INN module provides a replacement.  The first parameter
    # tells the Unix syslogger what severity to use; you can
    # abbreviate down to one letter and it's case insensitive.
    # Available levels are (in increasing levels of seriousness)
    # Debug, Info, Notice, Warning, Err, Crit, and Alert.  (If you
    # provide any other string, it will be defaulted to Notice.)  The
    # second parameter is the message text.  The syslog entries will
    # go to the same log files innd itself uses, with a 'python:'
    # prefix.
    syslog('warning', 'I will not buy this record.  It is scratched.')
    animals = 'eels'
    vehicle = 'hovercraft'
    syslog('N', 'My %s is full of %s.' % (vehicle, animals))

    # Let's cancel an article!  This only deletes the message on the
    # local server; it doesn't send out a control message or anything
    # scary like that.  Returns 1 if successful, else 0.
    if INN.cancel('<meow$123.456@solvangpastries.edu>'):
        cancelled = "yup"
    else:
        cancelled = "nope"

    # Check if a given message is in history.  This doesn't
    # necessarily mean the article is on your spool; cancelled and
    # expired articles hang around in history for a while, and
    # rejected articles will be in there if you have enabled
    # remembertrash in inn.conf.  Returns 1 if found, else 0.
    if INN.havehist('<z456$789.abc@isc.org>'):
        comment = "*yawn* I've already seen this article."
    else:
        comment = 'Mmm, fresh news.'

    # Here we are running a local spam filter, so why eat all those
    # cancels?  We can add fake entries to history so they'll get
    # refused.  Returns 1 on success, 0 on failure.
    cancelled_id = buffer('<meow$123.456@isc.org>')
    if INN.addhist("<cancel." + cancelled_id[1:]):
        thought = "Eat my dust, roadkill!"
    else:
        thought = "Darn, someone beat me to it."

    # We can look at the header or all of an article already on spool,
    # too.  Might be useful for long-memory despamming or
    # authentication things.  Each is returned (if present) as a
    # string object; otherwise you'll end up with an empty string.
    artbody = INN.article('<foo$bar.baz@bungmunch.edu>')
    artheader = INN.head('<foo$bar.baz@bungmunch.edu>')

    # As we can compute a hash digest for a string, we can obtain one
    # for artbody.  It might be of help to detect spam.
    digest = INN.hashstring(artbody)

    # Finally, do you want to see if a given newsgroup is moderated or
    # whatever?  INN.newsgroup returns the last field of a group's
    # entry in active as a string.
    froupflag = INN.newsgroup('alt.fan.karl-malden.nose')
    if froupflag == '':
        moderated = 'no such newsgroup'
    elif froupflag == 'y':
        moderated = "nope"
    elif froupflag == 'm':
        moderated = "yep"
    else:
        moderated = "something else"

=head1 Writing an B<nnrpd> filter

=head2 Changes to Python authentication and access control support for B<nnrpd>

The old authentication and access control functionality has been
combined with the new F<readers.conf> mechanism by Erik Klavon
<erik@eriq.org>; bug reports should however go to <inn-bugs@isc.org>,
not Erik.

The remainder of this section is an introduction to the new mechanism
(which uses the I<python_auth>, I<python_access>, and I<python_dynamic>
F<readers.conf> parameters) with porting/migration suggestions for
people familiar with the old mechanism (identifiable by the now
deprecated I<nnrpperlauth> parameter in F<inn.conf>).

Other people should skip this section.

The I<python_auth> parameter allows the use of Python to authenticate a
user.  Authentication scripts (like those from the old mechanism) are
listed in F<readers.conf> using I<python_auth> in the same manner other
authenticators are using I<auth>:

    python_auth: "nnrpd_auth"

It uses the script named F<nnrpd_auth.py> (note that C<.py> is not present
in the I<python_auth> value).

Scripts should be placed as before in the filter directory (see the
I<pathfilter> setting in F<inn.conf>).  The new hook method C<authen_init>
takes no arguments and its return value is ignored; its purpose is to
provide a means for authentication specific initialization.  The hook
method C<authen_close> is the more specific analogue to the old C<close>
method.  These two method hooks are not required, contrary to
C<authenticate>, the main method.

The argument dictionary passed to C<authenticate> remains the same,
except for the removal of the I<type> entry which is no longer needed
in this modification and the addition of several new entries (I<port>,
I<intipaddr>, I<intport>) described below.  The return tuple now only
contains either two or three elements, the first of which is the NNTP
response code.  The second is an error string which is passed to the
client if the response code indicates that the authentication attempt
has failed.  This allows a specific error message to be generated by
the Python script in place of the generic message C<Authentication
failed>.  An optional third return element, if present, will be used to
match the connection with the I<user> parameter in access groups and
will also be the username logged.  If this element is absent, the
username supplied by the client during authentication will be used, as
was the previous behaviour.

The I<python_access> parameter (described below) is new; it allows the
dynamic generation of an access group of an incoming connection using
a Python script.  If a connection matches an auth group which has a
I<python_access> parameter, all access groups in F<readers.conf> are
ignored; instead the procedure described below is used to generate an
access group.  This concept is due to Jeffrey S<M. Vinocur> and you can
add this line to F<readers.conf> in order to use the F<nnrpd_access.py>
Python script in I<pathfilter>:

    python_access: "nnrpd_access"

In the old implementation, the authorization method allowed for access
control on a per-group basis.  That functionality is preserved in the
new implementation by the inclusion of the I<python_dynamic> parameter in
F<readers.conf>.  The only change is the corresponding method name of
C<dynamic> as opposed to C<authorize>.  Additionally, the associated
optional housekeeping methods C<dynamic_init> and C<dynamic_close>
may be implemented if needed.  In order to use F<nnrpd_dynamic.py> in
I<pathfilter>, you can add this line to F<readers.conf>:

    python_dynamic: "nnrpd_dynamic"

This new implementation should provide all of the previous
capabilities of the Python hooks, in combination with the flexibility
of F<readers.conf> and the use of other authentication and resolving
programs (including the Perl hooks!).  To use Python code that predates
the new mechanism, you would need to modify the code slightly (see
below for the new specification) and supply a simple F<readers.conf>
file.  If you do not want to modify your code, the sample directory has
F<nnrpd_auth_wrapper.py>, F<nnrpd_access_wrapper.py> and
F<nnrpd_dynamic_wrapper.py> which should allow you to use your old
code without needing to change it.

However, before trying to use your old Python code, you may want to
consider replacing it entirely with non-Python authentication.  (With
F<readers.conf> and the regular authenticator and resolver programs, much
of what once required Python can be done directly.)  Even if the
functionality is not available directly, you may wish to write a new
authenticator or resolver (which can be done in whatever language you
prefer).

=head2 Python authentication support for B<nnrpd>

Support for authentication via Python is provided in B<nnrpd> by the
inclusion of a I<python_auth> parameter in a F<readers.conf> auth
group.  I<python_auth> works exactly like the I<auth> parameter in
F<readers.conf>, except that it calls the script given as argument
using the Python hook rather then treating it as an external
program.  Multiple, mixed use of I<python_auth> with other I<auth>
statements including I<perl_auth> is permitted.  Each I<auth> statement
will be tried in the order they appear in the auth group until either
one succeeds or all are exhausted.

If the processing of F<readers.conf> requires that a I<python_auth>
statement be used for authentication, Python is loaded (if it has yet
to be) and the file given as argument to the I<python_auth> parameter is
loaded as well (do not include the C<.py> extension of this file in
the value of I<python_auth>).  If a Python object with a method
C<authen_init> is hooked in during the loading of that file, then
that method is called immediately after the file is loaded.  If no
errors have occurred, the method C<authenticate> is called.  Depending
on the NNTP response code returned by C<authenticate>, the authentication
hook either succeeds or fails, after which the processing of the
auth group continues as usual.  When the connection with the client
is closed, the method C<authen_close> is called if it exists.

=head2 Dynamic generation of access groups

A Python script may be used to dynamically generate an access group
which is then used to determine the access rights of the client.  This
occurs whenever the I<python_access> parameter is specified in an auth group
which has successfully matched the client.  Only one I<python_access>
statement is allowed in an auth group.  This parameter should not be
mixed with a I<perl_access> statement in the same auth group.

When a I<python_access> parameter is encountered, Python is loaded (if
it has yet to be) and the file given as argument is loaded as well (do not
include the C<.py> extension of this file in the value of I<python_access>).
If a Python object with a method C<access_init> is hooked in during the
loading of that file, then that method is called immediately after the
file is loaded.  If no errors have occurred, the method C<access> is
called.  The dictionary returned by C<access> is used to generate an
access group that is then used to determine the access rights of the
client.  When the connection with the client is closed, the method
C<access_close> is called, if it exists.

While you may include the I<users> parameter in a dynamically generated
access group, some care should be taken (unless your pattern is just
C<*> which is equivalent to leaving the parameter out).  The group created
with the values returned from the Python script is the only one
considered when B<nnrpd> attempts to find an access group matching the
connection.  If a I<users> parameter is included and it does not match the
connection, then the client will be denied access since there are no
other access groups which could match the connection.

=head2 Dynamic access control

If you need to have access control rules applied immediately without
having to restart all the B<nnrpd> processes, you may apply access
control on a per newsgroup basis using the Python dynamic hooks (as
opposed to F<readers.conf>, which does the same on per user
basis).  These hooks are activated through the inclusion of the
I<python_dynamic> parameter in a F<readers.conf> auth group.  Only one
I<python_dynamic> statement is allowed in an auth group.

When a I<python_dynamic> parameter is encountered, Python is loaded (if
it has yet to be) and the file given as argument is loaded as well (do not
include the C<.py> extension of this file in the value of I<python_dynamic>).
If a Python object with a method C<dynamic_init> is hooked in during the
loading of that file, then that method is called immediately after the
file is loaded.  Every time a reader asks B<nnrpd> to read or post an
article, the Python method C<dynamic> is invoked before proceeding with
the requested operation.  Based on the value returned by C<dynamic>, the
operation is either permitted or denied.  When the connection with the
client is closed, the method C<access_close> is called if it exists.

=head2 Writing a Python B<nnrpd> authentication module

You need to create a F<nnrpd_auth.py> module in INN's filter directory
(see the I<pathfilter> setting in F<inn.conf>) where you should define a
class holding certain methods depending on which hooks you want to use.

Note that you will have to use different Python scripts for authentication
and access:  the values of I<python_auth>, I<python_access> and I<python_dynamic>
have to be distinct for your scripts to work.

The following methods are known to B<nnrpd>:

=over 4

=item __init__(I<self>)

Not explicitly called by B<nnrpd>, but will run whenever the auth module is
loaded.  Use this method to initialize any general variables or open
a common database connection.  This method may be omitted.

=item authen_init(I<self>)

Initialization function specific to authentication.  This method may be
omitted.

=item authenticate(I<self>, I<attributes>)

Called when a I<python_auth> statement is reached in the processing of
F<readers.conf>.  Connection attributes are passed in the I<attributes>
dictionary.  Returns a response code, an error string, and an optional
string to be used in place of the client-supplied username (both for
logging and for matching the connection with an access group).

=item authen_close(I<self>)

This method is invoked on B<nnrpd> termination.  You can use it to save
state information or close a database connection.  This method may be omitted.

=item access_init(I<self>)

Initialization function specific to generation of an access group.  This
method may be omitted.

=item access(I<self>, I<attributes>)

Called when a I<python_access> statement is reached in the processing of
F<readers.conf>.  Connection attributes are passed in the I<attributes>
dictionary.  Returns a dictionary of values representing statements to
be included in an access group.

=item access_close(I<self>)

This method is invoked on B<nnrpd> termination.  You can use it to save
state information or close a database connection.  This method may be omitted.

=item dynamic_init(I<self>)

Initialization function specific to dynamic access control.  This
method may be omitted.

=item dynamic(I<self>, I<attributes>)

Called when a client requests a newsgroup, an article or attempts to
post.  Connection attributes are passed in the I<attributes> dictionary.
Returns C<None> to grant access, or a non-empty string (which will be
reported back to the client) otherwise.

=item dynamic_close(I<self>)

This method is invoked on B<nnrpd> termination.  You can use it to save
state information or close a database connection.  This method may be omitted.

=back

=head2 The I<attributes> dictionary

The keys and associated values of the I<attributes> dictionary are
described below.

=over 4

=item I<type>

C<read> or C<post> values specify the authentication type; only valid
for the C<dynamic> method.

=item I<hostname>

It is the resolved hostname (or IP address if resolution fails) of
the connected reader.

=item I<ipaddress>

The IP address of the connected reader.

=item I<port>

The port of the connected reader.

=item I<interface>

The hostname of the local endpoint of the NNTP connection.

=item I<intipaddr>

The IP address of the local endpoint of the NNTP connection.

=item I<intport>

The port of the local endpoint of the NNTP connection.

=item I<user>

The username as passed with AUTHINFO command, or C<None> if not
applicable.

=item I<pass>

The password as passed with AUTHINFO command, or C<None> if not
applicable.

=item I<newsgroup>

The name of the newsgroup to which the reader requests read or post access;
only valid for the C<dynamic> method.

=back

All the above values are buffer objects (see the notes above on what
buffer objects are).

=head2 How to use these methods with B<nnrpd>

To register your methods with B<nnrpd>, you need to create an instance of
your class, import the built-in B<nnrpd> module, and pass the instance to
C<nnrpd.set_auth_hook>.  For example:

    class AUTH:
        def authen_init(self):
            ...
            blah blah
            ...

        def authenticate(self, attributes):
            ...
            yadda yadda
            ...

    import nnrpd
    myauth = AUTH()
    nnrpd.set_auth_hook(myauth)

When writing and testing your Python filter, don't be afraid to make use
of C<try:>/C<except:> and the provided C<nnrpd.syslog> function.  stdout and stderr
will be disabled, so your filter will die silently otherwise.

Also, remember to try importing your module interactively before loading
it, to ensure there are no obvious errors.  One typo can ruin your whole
filter.  A dummy F<nnrpd.py> module is provided to facilitate testing outside
the server.  It is not actually used by B<nnrpd> but provides the same set
of functions as built-in B<nnrpd> module. This stub module may be used
when debugging your own module.  To test, change into your filter directory
and use a command like:

    python -ic 'import nnrpd, nnrpd_auth'

=head2 Functions supplied by the built-in B<nnrpd> module

Besides C<nnrpd.set_auth_hook> used to pass a reference to the instance
of authentication and authorization class to B<nnrpd>, the B<nnrpd> built-in
module exports the following function:

=over 4

=item syslog(I<level>, I<message>)

It is intended to be a replacement for a Python native syslog.  It works
like C<INN.syslog>, seen above.

=back

$Id$

=cut
