=head1 NAME

ident - nnrpd ident resolver

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ident> [B<-p> I<port>] [B<-t>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program attempts to resolve usernames for B<nnrpd> by using the
ident protocol to query the remote host.  It contacts the remote host
using either IPv4 or IPv6 depending on which protocol was used for the
incoming NNTP connection.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-p> I<port>

If this option is given, attempt to contact identd on the specified
remote port (which can be a numeric or symbolic specification).
Non-numeric values will be looked up using getservbyname(3).  The
default value is the result of C<getservbyname("ident")> if available,
or port 113 otherwise.

=item B<-t>

If this option is given, the identity returned will never have a domain
part.  That is, if the remote server returns a result containing an C<@>
character, B<ident> truncates the response at the C<@>.  This is useful
to allow the I<default-domain> parameter in F<reaers.conf> to override
the domain supplied by the remote host (particularly if the supplied
domain part is an unqualified local machine name rather than a full
domain name).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

The following readers.conf(5) fragment tells nnrpd to trust ident
information for hosts on a local network, but to replace the domain
returned from the ident query:

    auth LAN {
	hosts: "192.168/16"
        res: "ident -t"
	default-domain: "internal.example.com"
    }

    access LAN {
        users: "*@internal.example.com"
        newsgroups: example.*
    }

Access is granted to the example.* groups for all users on the local
network whose machines respond to ident queries.

=head1 HISTORY

This documentation was written by Jeffrey M. Vinocur <jeff@litech.org>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

nnrpd(8), readers.conf(5)

=cut
