=head1 NAME

inncheck - Check INN configuration and database files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<inncheck> [B<-afqv>] [B<--noperm> | B<--perm>] [B<--pedantic>]
[I<file> | I<file>B<=>I<path> ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<inncheck> examines various configuration files and databases and verifies
things about them.  Things verified depend on the file being checked,
but generally are things like permissions, ownership, syntax errors in
config files, etc.

B<inncheck> does not make changes to any files S<-- it> just reports what
it thinks may be wrong, and it is up to the operator to fix the problem

The set of files checked may be restricted by using I<file> or
I<file>B<=>I<path> arguments.  For example, putting C<incoming.conf>
causes only the F<incoming.conf> file to be checked.  Using
C<incoming.conf=/tmp/incoming.conf> on the command line will cause
B<inncheck> to only verify the F<incoming.conf> file, and it will perform
the checks on the F</tmp/incoming.conf> file instead of the default one.
Setting a file path to an empty value like C<incoming.conf=> will skip
the check for that file (this only makes sense with B<-a>, or no files
will be checked at all).

Valid values for I<file> are:

    active
    control.ctl
    control.ctl.local
    expire.ctl
    incoming.conf
    inn.conf
    innfeed.conf
    moderators
    newsfeeds
    nntpsend.ctl
    passwd.nntp
    readers.conf
    storage.conf

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a>, B<--all>

If any I<file> value or I<file>B<=>I<path> pairs (see below) are given,
then normally only the files they refer to are checked.  Use the B<-a> (or
B<--all>) flag to specify that I<all> files should be checked regardless.
In this case the form I<file>B<=>I<path> will be the more useful.

=item B<-f>, B<--fix>

Use the B<-f> flag (or B<--fix>) to have B<inncheck> print the appropriate
B<chown>/B<chgrp>/B<chmod> command necessary to fix a problem that it
reports.  Any other output lines will be prefixed with a hash sign (C<#>)
to make the output be valid input for a shell.  Note that the B<--perm>
flag must be used as well when using this flag.

=item B<--noperm>

To avoid doing any checking of file permissions or ownership, use the
B<--noperm> option.

=item B<--pedantic>

Use the B<--pedantic> option to get reports on things that are not necessarily
wrong, but may indicate a bad configuration, such as F<inn.conf> missing
a key.

=item B<--perm>

B<inncheck> checks all files for permission problems.  If the B<--perm>
flag is used, then I<only> the files specified by the I<file> or
I<file>B<=>I<path> command line arguments will be checked for problems
other than permission problems.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Use the B<-q> option (or B<--quiet>) to get less output.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Use the B<-v> option (or B<--verbose>) to get more verbose output.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To have B<inncheck> check all files for syntax and permission problems
simply run:

    inncheck

It is recommended to run the following command to be aware of all the
potential problems B<inncheck> can detect:

    inncheck -a --perm --pedantic

To have B<inncheck> check all files for permission problems and to verify
the syntax of the F<active> and F<incoming.conf> files, do:

    inncheck --perm active incoming.conf

To fix the permissions problems noted in the output of the above command,
modify it as follows:

    inncheck -f --perm | sh

(Note that it is useless to mention the name of the two files since
permission problems are checked on all files.)

To have B<inncheck> check the test F<newsfeeds> file in
F</var/tmp/newsfeeds.testing>, do:

    inncheck newsfeeds=/var/tmp/newsfeeds.testing

To have B<inncheck> check all the files as it normally does, but to specify
a different location for the F<newsfeeds> file and omit checking of the
F<innfeed.conf> file, do:

    inncheck -a newsfeeds=/var/tmp/newsfeeds.testing innfeed.conf=

=head1 BUGS

If the B<-f> and B<--perm> options are used together, along with B<-a> or
some I<file> or I<file>B<=>I<path> arguments that refer to a file with
a syntax problem, then the output will no longer be valid input for a shell.

In most cases, B<inncheck> currently does not correctly understand option
values spanning multiple lines.  If you get error messages about runaway
quotes, you either have to ignore them and check the correctness of the
relevant lines yourself, or merge the value into a single line.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Brendan Kehoe <brendan@cygnus.com> and Rich Salz
<rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Converted to POD by Julien Elie.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

active(5), control.ctl(5), expire.ctl(5), history(5), incoming.conf(5),
inn.conf(5), innfeed.conf(5), moderators(5), newsfeeds(5), nntpsend.ctl(5),
passwd.nntp(5), readers.conf(5), storage.conf(5).

=cut
