=head1 NAME

inndf - Report free disk, inodes, and overview information

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<inndf> [B<-Fhi>] [B<-f> I<filename>] I<directory> [I<directory> ...]

B<inndf> B<-n>

B<inndf> B<-o>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<inndf> was originally a replacement for C<df | awk> in innwatch.ctl(5)
and innstat(8), and now also reports various other usage information about
INN's storage that df(1) doesn't understand.  B<inndf> doesn't sync, forks
less, and is generally less complicated than df(1).

Its default behavior is to report free kilobytes (not disk blocks), or
free inodes if B<-i> is used, in the file systems holding the directories
given on the command line.  (A kilobyte in this case is 1024 bytes.)  If
only one directory is given, the output will be a simple number; if more
than one directory is given, the output will be formatted for human
readability.

If I<enableoverview> is set to true in F<inn.conf>, B<inndf> can also be
used to get information about the overview database.  With the B<-n>
option, it reports a count of the total number of overview records stored.
With B<-o>, it reports the percentage of space used in the overview
database (for those overview methods where this is meaningful data).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-f> I<filename>

I<filename> should contain a list of directories to use in addition to
those given by the arguments, one per line.  Blank lines and anything
after C<#> on any line are ignored.

=item B<-F>

Like B<-f> except that the filename is I<pathetc>/filesystems and it is
not an error if this file doesn't exist.  (This option is used primarily
by such things as innstat(8), so that the news administrator can add
additional file systems to check to I<pathetc>/filesystems without having
to modify the script.)

=item B<-h>

Print a usage message and exit.

=item B<-i>

Report the number of free inodes rather than the amount of free disk
space.

=item B<-n>

Report the total number of records in the overview database.  Note that
crossposted articles will have one overview record for each newsgroup
they're posted to.

=item B<-o>

Report the percentage usage of the overview database space.  This is only
meaningful for overview methods that pre-allocate a certain amount of
space rather than grow to accomodate more records.  Currently, this flag
is only useful for the buffindexed overview method.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Print the free kilobytes in I<pathspool> as a simple number:

    inndf <pathspool in inn.conf>

Report the free inodes in I<pathnews> and I<pathspool> in a format
designed for human readability:

    inndf -i <pathnews> <pathspool>

The same, but also add in all file systems in I<pathetc>/filesystems:

    inndf -i -F <pathnews> <pathspool>

Print out the number of overview records and the percentage space used by
a buffindexed overview database:

    inndf -no

=head1 HISTORY

B<inndf> was written by Ian Dickinson <idickins@fore.com>.  This manual
page was written by Swa Frantzen <Swa.Frantzen@belgium.eu.net>.  Thanks
also to the following folks for ports, patches, and comments:

    Mahesh Ramachandran <rr@eel.ufl.edu>
    Chuck Swiger <chuck@its.com>
    Sang-yong Suh <sysuh@kigam.re.kr>
    Brad Dickey <bdickey@haverford.edu>
    Taso N. Devetzis <devetzis@snet.net>
    Wei-Yeh Lee <weiyeh@columbia.edu>
    Jeff Garzik <jeff.garzik@spinne.com>

and to all the other folks I met and worked with during my 10 years as a
newsadmin.

Katsuhiro Kondou added the B<-n> and B<-o> options.  Russ Allbery added
reporting of percentage free disk space.  Support for B<-f> and B<-F> was
added by Fabien Tassin <fta@sofaraway.org>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

df(1), innwatch.ctl(5), innstat(8).

=cut
