=head1 NAME

innreport.conf - Configuration file for innreport

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The file I<pathetc>/innreport.conf permits configuring the behaviour of
B<innreport>.  It consists of a series of lines; blank lines and what follows
a number sign (C<#>) in a line are ignored.  The structure of this file is:

    section default {
        libpath             "/path/to/libraries";
        logpath             "/path/to/logs";
        module              "innreport_inn";
        display_conf_file   "innreport-display.conf";
        unwanted_log        "unwanted.log";
        text                true;
        html                true;  # Enable HTML reports.
        # Other options to set.
    };

Only this I<default> section needs being configured.  It begins with C<section
default {> and ends with C<};>.  Each line in the section consists of an
option name followed with one or more spaces or tabulations, its value and
a semi-colon C<;>.

The I<display_conf_file> option defines the name of the display configuration
file to use.  This file, located in I<libpath>, has the same syntax as
F<innreport.conf>.  If you want to use a custom display configuration, just
rename the default F<innreport-display.conf> file to another name, and set
it in I<display_conf_file> (otherwise, F<innreport-display.conf> will be
overwritten each time you update INN).

Sections defined in the display configuration file are used to parameter
the display, how and what to report, but should not normally be changed
(unless you precisely know what you are doing).  These sections are written
in a domain-specific language not intended to be modified (you may break the
reports, especially if changing I<data>, I<double>, I<format>, I<primary>,
I<sort>, I<total> or I<value> parameters).  The easiest parameters to change,
if needed, would be:

=over 4

=item *

I<title> (the titles of sections in B<innreport>),

=item *

I<name> (the names of the columns),

=item *

I<color> (the color of curves in the graphs),

=item *

I<numbering> (a boolean value to configure whether each row of HTML reports is
prefixed with a rank number),

=item *

I<text>, I<html>, and I<skip> (boolean values to configure whether a given
section should be present in respectively text, HTML or both reports),

=item *

I<top> (the maximum number of values to display); you can specify
different values for text and HTML reports with I<top_text> and I<top_html>.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options can be set in the I<default> section of the general
configuration file F<innreport.conf>:

=over 4

=item I<archive>

Sets whether HTML pages and graphs should be archived if HTML reports are
enabled.  When this option is set to C<true>, which is the default, a date
will be added in the file name of each report and each graph.  Otherwise,
only the latest HTML report is kept.

Use of the B<->[B<no>]B<archive> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence
over the configuration file.

=item I<casesensitive>

When this option is set to C<true>, which is the default, case sensitive
searches are done in news log files for predetermined patterns.

Use of the B<->[B<no>]B<casesensitive> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence
over the configuration file.

=item I<cycle>

Sets how many report files should be kept if HTML reports are enabled and
archived.  The default is C<0>, meaning all archives are kept.  The value
C<none> also means C<0>.

Use of the B<-cycle> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over the
configuration file.

=item I<display_conf_file>

Defines the display configuration file to use, located in the directory set
with the I<libpath> option.  The default is C<innreport-display.conf>.

=item I<encoding>

Specifies the character set to use in XML and Content-Type declarations of
HTML reports.  The default is C<ISO-8859-1>.

=item I<footer>

Specifies a text to append to the end of the latest C<< <div> >> tag of each
HTML report, where the version of B<innreport> is displayed.  This option
is unset by default.

=item I<graph>

If the Perl graphic library F<GD.pm> is installed and HTML reports are
enabled, graphs are also generated in PNG if supported by C<GD>, which is
the case in modern versions (GIF will otherwise be generated).  This option
is set to C<true> by default, meaning to enable graph generation.

Use of the B<->[B<no>]B<graph> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over
the configuration file.

=item I<graph_bg>

Specifies the background colour of graphs in HTML reports as an HTML
hexadecimal colour value.  The default is C<#FFFFFF> (white).

=item I<graph_fg>

Specifies the foreground colour of graphs in HTML reports as an HTML
hexadecimal colour value.  The default is C<#000000> (black).

=item I<graph_width>

Sets the width in pixels of graphs in HTML reports.  The default is C<550>.

=item I<html>

This is a mandatory option with no default value.  It serves two purposes:
generating HTML reports besides the plain text report printed to standard
output, and configuring in the sections other than I<default> (in the display
configuration file) whether a section of the report should be present in the
HTML output.

If set to C<true>, and the B<-nohtml> flag not given when calling
B<innreport>, HTML reports will be generated.  These reports will not
contain sections individually having I<html> set to C<false> in the display
configuration file (by default, everything is present in the HTML reports).
Otherwise, if the B<-nohtml> flag is given, no HTML reports will be generated.

If set to C<false>, and the B<-html> flag not given when calling B<innreport>,
no HTML reports will be generated.  Otherwise, if the B<-html> flag is given,
HTML reports will be generated but only the sections individually having
I<html> set to C<true> in the display configuration file will be present in
the reports.

=item I<html_body>

Specifies additional elements to append to the C<< <body> >> tag of HTML
reports.  This option is unset by default.

Note that using this option leads to invalid XHTML.  You should provide a
custom CSS file with the I<html_css_url> option instead.

=item I<html_css_url>

Specifies the name of a CSS file to use to apply a custom style to HTML
reports.  The file is located in the directory set with the I<html_dir>
option.  It may also be a URL, in which case the file may be in another
location.

If unset, which is the default, B<innreport> creates a default
F<innreport.css> custom style sheet in I<html_dir> and uses it for HTML
reports.

In case you wish to supply your own style, take a look at what is defined
in the default CSS and the HTML reports, and adapt it for your needs.
Across several B<innreport> releases that may change classes, make sure
to keep old class definitions for backward compatibility with previously
generated HTML reports still referring to that custom file.

=item I<html_dir>

Sets the directory for web pages if HTML reports are enabled.  The default
is the value of I<pathhttp> as set in F<inn.conf>.

Use of the B<-dir> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over the
configuration file.

=item I<html_file_extension>

Defines the file extension of generated HTML reports, if enabled.  A dot
(C<.>) should begin the extension.  The default is C<.html>.

You may want to use C<.xhtml> instead to let the web server serve correct
MIME type, as B<innreport> generates S<XHTML 1.1> pages.

=item I<html_footer_file>

Specifies the name of a file in I<html_dir> whose contents will be appended
just before the C<< </body> >> tag of each HTML report.  This option is
unset by default.

=item I<html_header_file>

Specifies the name of a file in I<html_dir> whose contents will be appended
just after the C<< <body> >> tag of each HTML report.  This option is unset
by default.

=item I<html-unknown>

Whether to report unknown entries from news log files in HTML reports,
when set to C<true>.  This option takes by default the same value as the
one for text plain reports (as set with the I<unknown> option).

Use of the B<->[B<no>]B<html-unknown> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence
over the configuration file.

=item I<html_xsl_url>

Specifies the name of an XSL file to use to apply styling operations to
HTML reports.  The file is located in the directory set with the I<html_dir>
option.  It may also be a URL, in which case the file may be in another
location.

This option is unset by default.  When set, a corresponding XML style sheet
declaration is added to HTML reports.  It may be useful for XHTML compliance
with older browsers (see L<https://www.w3.org/MarkUp/2004/xhtml-faq#ie>).

More generally, if you are interested in XSL transformation, you may want to
have a look at F<innreport-filter.xslt> provided in the F<contrib> directory.

=item I<img_dir>

Sets the web path for pictures in HTML pages if HTML reports are enabled,
and graphs are wanted.  The path is relative to the directory set with the
I<html_dir> option.  The default is C<pics>.

Use of the B<-webpath> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over the
configuration file.

=item I<index>

Sets the name of the index web page if HTML reports are enabled.  The default
is C<index.html>.

You may want to use C<index.xhtml> instead to let the web server serve
correct MIME type, as B<innreport> generates S<XHTML 1.1> pages.

Use of the B<-index> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over the
configuration file.

=item I<libpath>

Defines the directory in which the Perl module set with the I<module>
option is located.  This option is mandatory, and usually set to the same
value as I<pathlib> in F<inn.conf>.

=item I<logpath>

Defines the directory in which the log file for newsgroups not locally carried
by the news server, as set with the I<unwanted_log> option, is located.
This option is mandatory, and usually set to the same value as I<pathlog>
in F<inn.conf>.

=item I<max_unknown>

How many unrecognized entries from news log files to report, when the
I<unknown> or I<html-unknown> options are set.  The default is C<50>.
Using C<-1> means there is no limit.

Use of the B<-maxunrec> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over the
configuration file.

=item I<module>

Defines the Perl module used by B<innreport> to parse and summarize log files.
This option is mandatory, and usually set to C<innreport_inn>.  This value
should not normally be changed unless you know exactly what you are doing.
The Perl module that will be loaded is F<< I<module>.pm >> located in the
directory set with the I<libpath> option.

=item I<separator>

Sets the separator between hours, minutes and seconds in file names if
HTML reports are enabled and archived.  The default is C<.> as C<:> may
not be properly read by all web browsers.  Be careful I<not> to use C</>
as a separator, and to use only a valid file name character.

Use of the B<-separator> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence over the
configuration file.

=item I<text>

This is a mandatory option with no default value.

If set to C<true>, B<innreport> will print its text report to standard output.
This report will not contain sections individually having I<text> set to
C<false> in the display configuration file (by default, everything is present
in the text report).

If set to C<false>, B<innreport> will only print to standard output
the sections individually having I<text> set to C<true> in the display
configuration file (by default, the text report will be empty).

=item I<title>

Specifies the text to use as first words of text and HTML reports as well
as in the title of HTML reports.  By default, C<Daily Usenet report> is used.

=item I<transparent>

If set to C<true>, the background of generated graphs in HTML reports will
be transparent.  The default is C<false>.

=item I<unknown>

Whether to report unknown entries from news log files in plain text reports,
when set to C<true>.  This option is enabled by default.

Use of the B<->[B<no>]B<unknown> flag with innreport(8) takes precedence
over the configuration file.

=item I<unwanted_log>

Defines the name of the file used by B<innreport> to maintain a count of
the number of articles that were rejected because they were posted to
newsgroups that do not exist in the F<active> file of the news server.
This file is updated by B<innreport> while processing the F<news.notice>
log file and it is maintained in reverse numeric order (the most popular
rejected group first).

This option is mandatory, and usually set to C<unwanted.log>.  This value
should not normally be changed unless you know exactly what you are doing.
The file is located in the directory set with the I<logpath> option.

Note that I<logtrash> has to be set to true in F<inn.conf> for this file
to be generated.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Julien Elie for InterNetNews.

=head1 SEE ALSO

innreport(8).

=cut
