=head1 NAME

innreport - Summarize INN log files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<innreport> B<-f> I<config-file> [B<-config>] [B<-help>] [B<-v>]
[B<->[B<no>]B<archive>] [B<->[B<no>]B<casesensitive>] [B<->[B<no>]B<graph>]
[B<->[B<no>]B<html>] [B<->[B<no>]B<html-unknown>] [B<->[B<no>]B<notdaily>]
[B<->[B<no>]B<unknown>] [B<-cycle> I<num-cycle>] [B<-dir> I<http-dir>]
[B<-index> I<index-file>] [B<-maxunrec> I<num-lines>]
[B<-path> I<pictures-dir>] [B<-separator> I<char>]
[B<-webpath> I<pictures-path>] I<log-file> [I<log-file> ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<innreport> is a Perl script that summarizes INN log files, with optional
HTML output and graphs.  It is normally invoked by scanlogs(8) which includes
the output of B<innreport> in daily Usenet reports.

Supported programs are B<batcher>, B<cnfsstat>, B<controlchan>, B<innd>,
B<innfeed>, B<innxmit>, B<nnrpd>, B<nntplink> (an external program),
B<overchan>, B<perl-nocem> and B<rnews>.

B<innreport> also updates the count of newsgroups not locally carried
by the news server, and for which articles have been received, in the
F<unwanted.log> log file.  If that update should not be done, as it should
occur only once a day while parsing daily logs, the B<-notdaily> flag should
be given to B<innreport>.

If you want B<innreport> to generate graphs in its HTML reports, you need
the Perl graphic library F<GD.pm>.

At least one non-empty log file to parse should be given at the end of the
command line invoking B<innreport>.

=head1 OPTIONS

Only one option is mandatory:

=over 4

=item B<-f> I<config-file>

Full path to the configuration file.  It is usually F<innreport.conf> in
I<pathetc>, but there is no default value.  This file lists the options
to use for the report.  The options given in command line when calling
B<innreport> take precedence over the ones in the configuration file.

=back

The other options are optional.  Prepending C<no> in front of boolean
options permits unsetting them.  For example, use B<-nograph> to remove
the feature B<-graph> enables.

=over 4

=item B<-archive> or B<-a>

Sets whether HTML pages and graphs should be archived if HTML reports
are enabled.  When this option is set, which is the default, a date will
be added in the file name of each report and each graph.  Otherwise, only
the latest HTML report is kept.

=item B<-casesensitive>

Whether to do case sensitive searches in news log files for predetermined
patterns.  This option is enabled by default.

=item B<-config>

Prints to standard output configuration information for B<innreport>,
and exits.

=item B<-cycle> or B<-c> I<num-cycle>

Sets how many report files should be kept if HTML reports are enabled
and archived.  The default is C<0>, meaning all archives are kept.

=item B<-dir> or B<-d> I<http-dir>

Sets the directory for web pages if HTML reports are enabled.  The default
is the value of I<pathhttp> as set in F<inn.conf>.

=item B<-graph> or B<-g>

If the Perl graphic library F<GD.pm> is installed and HTML reports are
enabled, graphs are also generated in PNG if supported by C<GD>, which is
the case in modern versions (GIF will otherwise be generated).  The default
is to enable graph generation.

=item B<-help> or B<-h>

Prints to standard output a help message with all the options recognized
by B<innreport>, and exits.

=item B<-html>

Besides the plain text report printed to standard output, B<innreport>
generates HTML reports if this option is enabled.  This option is disabled
by default (that is to say B<-nohtml> is the default).

=item B<-html-unknown>

Whether to report unknown entries from news log files in HTML reports,
when enabled.  This option takes by default the same value as the one for
text plain reports (as set with the I<unknown> option).

=item B<-index> or B<-i>

Sets the name of the index web page if HTML reports are enabled.  The default
is C<index.html>.

=item B<-maxunrec> I<num-lines>

How many unrecognized entries from news log files to report, when the
B<-unknown> or B<-html-unknown> options are set.  The default is C<50>.
Using C<-1> means there is no limit.

=item B<-notdaily>

Whether to defer daily actions for this run of B<innreport>.  Some actions
should be performed only once a day for a log file (notably F<unwanted.log>).
This option is disabled by default, meaning that all actions are always done,
as we assume a default setup of running B<scanlogs> daily.

=item B<-path> or B<-p> I<pictures-dir>

Sets the directory for pictures if HTML reports are enabled, and graphs
are wanted.  The default is I<pathhttp>/F<pics>.

If both B<-dir> and B<-webpath> are used, and B<-path> isn't, the directory
used for pictures defaults to I<< http-dir as set with B<-dir> >>/I<<
pictures-path as set with B<-webpath> >>.

=item B<-separator> or B<-s> I<char>

Sets the separator between hours, minutes and seconds in file names if
HTML reports are enabled and archived.  The default is C<.> as C<:> may
not be properly read by all web browsers.  Be careful I<not> to use C</>
as a separator, and to use only a valid file name character.

=item B<-unknown>

Whether to report unknown entries from news log files in plain text reports.
This option is enabled by default.

=item B<-v>

Prints to standard output the version number of B<innreport>, and exits.

=item B<-webpath> or B<-w> I<pictures-path>

Sets the web path for pictures in HTML pages if HTML reports are enabled,
and graphs are wanted.  The default is C<pics>.  It can be a relative path
or an absolute path.  If an absolute path is used, you have to set B<-path>
appropriately; otherwise it will not be computed right.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Fabien Tassin <fta@sofaraway.org> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten into
POD by Julien Elie.

=head1 SEE ALSO

innreport.conf(5), news.daily(8), newslog(5), scanlogs(8).

=cut
