=head1 NAME

innupgrade - Upgrade INN configuration files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<innupgrade> I<directory>

B<innupgrade> [B<-t> I<type>] B<-f> I<file>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<innupgrade> is intended to be run during a major upgrade of INN to fix
the configuration files with any required changes.  If given a directory,
it will scan that directory for any files that it has updates defined for,
try to perform those updates, and replace the files with updated versions
if applying the updates resulted in any changes.  The old versions of the
files will be saved with a C<.OLD> extension.

If the B<-f> flag is used, only that file will be updated.  If the file
name doesn't match the standard file name of an INN configuration file,
the optional B<-t> flag may be given to specify the type.  See
L<"EXAMPLES"> for an example of this.

Currently, B<innupgrade> knows how to apply the following updates:

=over 2

=item F<inn.conf>

=over 2

=item *

Quote values with whitespace and comment out keys with no values, required
for the change in configuration parsers introduced in S<INN 2.4>.  The new
format is not backward compatible with the previous parser, since the
previous parser will include the double-quotes in the value of the parameter.

=item *

Add the I<hismethod> parameter if not found (introduced in S<INN 2.4>,
with the default value C<hisv6>).  Rename I<nntpactsync> to
I<incominglogfrequency> (since S<INN 2.5>).  Rename I<addnntppostingdate>
and I<addnntppostinghost> to respectively I<addinjectiondate> and
I<addinjectionpostinghost> (since S<INN 2.6>).

=item *

If the F<overview.fmt> file exists, its content is merged in
the I<extraoverviewadvertised> and I<extraoverviewhidden> parameters
introduced in S<INN 2.5>.  The file is then renamed to F<overview.fmt.OLD>.

=item *

If the F<sasl.conf> file exists, its content is merged in
the I<tlscapath>, I<tlscafile>, I<tlscertfile> and I<tlskeyfile>
parameters introduced in S<INN 2.5>.   The file is then renamed to
F<sasl.conf.OLD>.

=back

=item F<newsfeeds>

=over 2

=item *

Replace the use of B<startinnfeed> with the appropriate direct invocation
of B<innfeed> or B<imapfeed>.

=back

=back

A few obsolete programs or configuration files are renamed with a C<.OLD>
extension by B<innupgrade>.  Obsolete man pages are directly removed.

Normally, B<innupgrade> should be run at least on the I<pathetc> directory
after any upgrade of INN other than a patch release (any upgrade that changes
the first or second version numbers).  This may occur automatically during
the upgrade process.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-f> I<file>

Only act on I<file> rather than working on an entire directory.

=item B<-t> I<type>

For a file specified with B<-f>, parse it and upgrade it as if it were
named I<type>.  Used for upgrading files with the same syntax as normal
INN configuration files but with different names.  Only makes sense in
combination with B<-f>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Upgrade any configuration files found in I<pathetc> and append a C<.OLD>
extension to obsolete files in I<pathetc>:

    innupgrade <pathetc in inn.conf>

Upgrade only F</news/etc/inn.conf>:

    innupgrade -f /news/etc/inn.conf

Upgrade a file named F<inn-special.conf> that should have the same syntax
as F<inn.conf>:

    innupgrade -t inn.conf -f inn-special.conf

Any upgrade rules that apply to F<inn.conf> will be applied to the
alternate file.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu> for InterNetNews.

$Id$

=cut
