=head1 NAME

innxbatch, sendxbatches - Send xbatched Usenet articles to a remote NNTP
server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<innxbatch> [B<-Dv>] [B<-t> I<timeout>] [B<-T> I<timeout>] I<host> I<file>
[I<file> ...]

B<innxbatch> B<-i> [B<-Dv>] [B<-t> I<timeout>] [B<-T> I<timeout>] I<host>

B<sendxbatches> I<sitename> I<host> I<file> [I<file> ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<innxbatch> connects to port 119 of the NNTP server at the specified I<host>,
and sends it the specified xbatch files, using the XBATCH extension to the
NNTP protocol.  These files are specified either from the command line or
from standard input if B<i> is used.

Each file is removed after it has been successfully transferred.

If a communication error such as a write(2) failure, or an unexpected reply
from the remote server occurs, B<innxbatch> will stop sending and leave
all remaining files untouched for later retry.

If authentication credentials are present for the remote server in the
F<passwd.nntp> file in I<pathetc>, then B<innxbatch> will use them to
authenticate.

B<innxbatch> does not use itself any file locking.  At worst, a batch could be
transmitted twice in parallel by two independent invocations of B<innxbatch>.
To prevent this, it should be invoked by a script run out of cron(8) that uses
shlock(1) to lock the host name, followed by a C<ctlinnd flush> command to
flush the batch file.  B<sendxbatches> is such a wrapper around B<innxbatch>.
It will ensure only one instance is run, flush I<sitename> (as used in the
F<newsfeeds> entry) and send to I<host> the files given as arguments.

As the XBATCH extension is not a standardized NNTP command, some news servers
do not recognize it.  Moreover, to accept batches from remote peers via
XBATCH, you have to explicitly enable the capability with the I<noxbatch>
setting in F<incoming.conf>.  Instead of using B<innxbatch>, you may consider
B<innfeed>, or if that is not possible, B<nntpsend>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-D>

Prints debugging information on standard error.  This will show the protocol
transactions between B<innxbatch> and the NNTP server on the remote host.

=item B<-i>

Reads batch file names from standard input.  For each successfully transmitted
batch, an C<OK> is printed on stdout to indicate that another file name
is expected.

=item B<-t> I<timeout>

Specifies a timeout in seconds on how long to try to make the connection.
Otherwise, B<innxbatch> normally blocks until the connection is made.

=item B<-T> I<timeout>

Specifies the total amount of time in seconds that should be allowed for
article transfers.

The default is to wait until an I/O error occurs, or all the articles have
been transferred.  If this flag is used, the time is checked just before
each article is started; it will not abort a transfer that is in progress.

=item B<-v>

Upon exit, B<innxbatch> reports transfer and CPU usage statistics via
syslog(3).  If this flag is used, they will also be printed on the standard
output.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

A sample F<newsfeeds> entry to produce appropriate xbatch files is:

    nase\
        :*\
        :Tc,Wnb\
        :<pathbin>/batcher -p "(<$COMPRESS in <pathlib>/innshellvars>\
            > <pathoutgoing>/nase.\$\$)" nase.do.main

A sample script to invoke innxbatch(8) is:

    #! /bin/sh
    #  Send xbatches for a site, wrapped around innxbatch.
    if [ $# -lt 3 ]
    then
        echo "usage: $0 <sitename> <hostname> <xbatch file name> ..."
        exit 1
    fi
    . <pathlib>/innshellvars
    site="$1"; host="$2"; shift; shift
    ctlinnd flush "$site" \
    && sleep 5 \
    && exec ${NEWSBIN}/innxbatch -v -D "$host" $*

You can use B<sendxbatches>, already shipped with INN, doing locking.
An example of call is:

    sendxbatches nase remote.news.server.name <pathoutgoing>/nase*

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Stefan Petri <petri@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>, modelled after B<innxmit>
and the XBATCH patch for the NNTP reference implementation.  Examples from
Karsten Leipold <poldi@dfn.de>.  Rewritten into POD by Julien Elie.

=head1 SEE ALSO

ctlinnd(8), incoming.conf(5), innxmit(8), newsfeeds(5), nntpsend(8),
passwd.nntp(5), shlock(1).

=cut
