=head1 NAME

moderators - Submission addresses for moderated groups

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When an unapproved article is posted locally to a moderated newsgroup,
it is not passed off to B<innd> for normal handling; instead, it is sent
via e-mail to the submission address for that newsgroup.  The submission
address is determined using this configuration file.

The F<moderators> file is a list of associations between uwildmat(3)
patterns matching newsgroups and the submission address for those
newsgroups.  Blank lines and lines starting with a number sign (C<#>) are
ignored.  All other lines should consist of two fields separated by a
colon:

    <pattern>:<address>

The first field is a uwildmat(3) pattern matching the group or groups to
which this line applies.  The first matching line is used, so more
specific patterns should be listed before general patterns.

The second field, the submission address, should be a simple e-mail
adddress with one exception:  At most C<%s> may occur anywhere in the
address.  If present, it will be replaced by the name of the newsgroup,
with all periods in the name changed to dashes (C<->).  If there is a
literal C<%> in the submission address, it must be written as C<%%>, even
if not followed by an C<s>.

Periods are converted to dashes for historical reasons, from back in the
days when periods in the local part of addresses were not always handled
correctly.  It's probably no longer necessary, but so much now depends on
it that it can't be easily changed.

It's intended that the sample moderators file included in the INN
distribution always be sufficient for all world-wide newsgroups.  The
hosts behind moderators.isc.org have graciously volunteered to handle
forwarding tasks for all world-wide newsgroups so that individual sites
don't have to keep track of the submission addresses for moderated groups.
The forwarding database used by moderators.isc.org is coordinated by
<moderators-request@isc.org>; if you know of a world-wide newsgroup
hierarchy that is not correctly handled by moderators.isc.org, please send
the details to that address.

Given that, the only thing you should have to add to the sample file under
normal circumstances are the forwarding addresses for local or
limited-distribution moderated groups.

If this file doesn't exist, or if a post is made to a moderated group that
has no matching entry in this file, B<nnrpd> falls back on the value of
I<moderatormailer> set in F<inn.conf> and, failing that, rejects the post.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is a sample file:

    example.important:announce@example.com
    example.*:%s@smtp.example.com
    *:%s@moderators.isc.org

Using the above file, postings to the moderated newsgroup in the left
column below will be sent to the address shown in the right column below:

    example.important   announce@example.com
    example.x-announce  example-x-announce@smtp.example.com
    alt.dev.null        alt-dev-null@moderators.isc.org

Note that periods are changed to dashes and dashes are left alone, so two
moderated newsgroups whose names differ only by changing a period to a
dash would go to the same address.  Such newsgroup pairs should therefore
not be created.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten in
POD by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

inn.conf(5), nnrpd(8), uwildmat(3)

=cut
