=head1 NAME

news2mail - Channel script to gateway news into e-mails

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<news2mail>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<news2mail> runs as a channel process underneath B<innd>.  It is set
up as channel feed in F<newsfeeds>, with different mailing-lists as funnel
entries pointing to it (see below); B<news2mail> expects the token of an
article followed by a sequence of list names.

B<news2mail> uses the configuration file I<pathetc>/news2mail.cf to map
mailing-list names to e-mail addresses.  B<news2mail> causes B<sendmail>
to queue the messages for later delivery (to avoid DOS attacks by mass
postings).  You must run C<sendmail -q> periodically to get the queue
processed.

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

The configuration file format is simple:  comments (starting with a hash sign
C<#>) and blank lines are ignored.  All other lines have two or three fields
on them.  The first is the list name and is what B<innd> uses (i.e. the site
field of the entry in the F<newsfeeds> file).  The second field is the
actual e-mail address to send the article to.  The third field is optional:
it sets the envelope-from address (for instance a list member's address;
if not set, it defaults to the C<news> user).

In e-mail messages, the To: header will have the mailing-list address
(i.e. the second field).  Besides, B<news2mail> strips most article headers
from the article before mailing.

In F<newsfeeds>, the channel feed should look like:

    news2mail!:!*:Ac,Tc,Wn*:<pathbin>/news2mail

and for each mailing-list, you only have to add to F<newsfeeds> an entry list
like:

    list-big-red-ants/lists.ucsd.edu:!*,rec.pets.red-ants:Ap,Tm:news2mail!

Please note the use of C<Ap> and the exclusion of the list owner domain
to protect the list from feeding back new arrivals from the list.
The site name used in the F<newfeeds> entry for a mailing-list (above
C<list-big-red-ants>) must be the same as the first field in an entry in
F<news2mail.cf>.  For instance:

    # Newsfeeds-name      List-to-address                 [List-sender-address]
    list-big-red-ants     big-red-ants@lists.ucsd.edu     news+big-red-ants@local.news.server.org

=head1 BUGS

The B<news2mail> program is set up as a funneled channel in F<newsfeeds>,
implying multiple matches should be handled as one S<- and> multiple matching
funneled feeds will result in a single call to the script.  Therefore,
since only one mail is sent, crossposts are not currently properly handled
as for the envelope-from address (which then defaults to the C<news> user).

=head1 HISTORY

B<news2mail> was written by Brian Kantor in 1998.  This man page was written
by James Brister and converted to POD by Julien Elie.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

innd(8), newsfeeds(5).

=cut
