=head1 NAME

nntpsend - Send Usenet articles to remote sites

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<nntpsend> [B<-acDdlNnpr>] [B<-P> I<portnum>] [B<-s> I<size>]
[B<-T> I<timelimit>] [B<-t> I<timeout>] [B<-w> I<delay>]
[I<sitename> I<fqdn>] ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<nntpsend> is a front-end that invokes B<innxmit> to send Usenet articles
to a remote NNTP site.  The sites to be fed may be specified by giving
I<sitename> I<fqdn> pairs on the command line.  If no such pairs are given,
B<nntpsend> defaults to the information given in the F<nntpsend.ctl>
config file.  The I<sitename> should be the name of the site as specified
in the F<newsfeeds> file.  The I<fqdn> should be the hostname or IP address
of the remote site.  An B<innxmit> is launched for sites with queued news.
All B<innxmit> processes are spawned in the background and the script
waits for them all to finish before returning.  Output is sent to the file
F<nntpsend.log> in I<pathlog>.  In order to keep from overwhelming the
local system, B<nntpsend> waits five seconds before spawning each child.

B<nntpsend> expects that the batch file for a site is named I<sitename>
in I<pathoutgoing>.  To prevent batch files corruption, B<shlock> is used to
"lock" these files.  When I<sitename> I<fqdn> pairs are given on the command
line, any flags given on the command completely describe how B<innxmit>
and B<shrinkfile> operate.  When no such pairs are given on the command
line, then the information found in F<nntpsend.ctl> becomes the default
flags for that site.  Any flags given on the command line override the
default flags for the site.

An alternative to B<nntpsend> can be B<innduct>, mentioned in the
innfeed(8) man page.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 2

=item B<-D>, B<-d>

The B<-D> flag causes B<nntpsend> to send output to stdout rather than
the log file F<nntpsend.log> in I<pathlog>.  The B<-d> flag does the same
and it passes B<-d> to all B<innxmit> invocations, which in turn causes
B<innxmit> to go into debug mode.

=item B<-n>

If the B<-n> flag is used, then B<nntpsend> does not use B<shlock> to lock
the use of B<nntpsend>.  Batch files will still be locked.

=item B<-s> I<size>

If the B<-s> flag is used, then B<shrinkfile> will be invoked to perform
a head truncation of I<size> bytes on the batch file and the flag will be
passed to it.

=item B<-w> I<delay>

If the B<-w> flag is used, then B<nntpsend> waits for I<delay> seconds
after flushing the site before launching B<innxmit>.

=item B<-a>, B<-c>, B<-l>, B<-N>, B<-P> I<portnum>, B<-p>, B<-r>, B<-T>
I<timelimit>, B<-t> I<timeout>

The B<-a>, B<-c>, B<-l>, B<-P> I<portnum>, B<-p>, B<-r>, B<-T> I<timelimit>
and B<-t> I<timeout> flags are passed on to the child B<innxmit> program.
The B<-N> flag is passed as B<-s> flag to the child B<innxmit> program.
See innxmit(8) for more details.

Note that if the B<-p> flag is used, then no connection is made and no
articles are fed to the remote site.  It is useful to have cron(8) invoke
B<nntpsend> with this flag in case a site cannot be reached for an extended
period of time.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

With the following F<nntpsend.ctl> config file:

    nsavax:erehwon.nsavax.gov::-t60
    group70:group70.org::
    walldrug:walldrug.com:4m-1m:-T1800 -t300
    kremvax:kremvax.cis:2m:

the command C<nntpsend> will result in the following:

    Sitename        Truncation      innxmit flags
    nsavax          (none)          -a -t60
    group70         (none)          -a -t180
    walldrug        1m if >4m       -T1800 -t300
    kremvax         2m              -t180

The command C<nntpsend -d -T1200> will result in the following:

    Sitename        Truncation      innxmit flags
    nsavax          (none)          -a -d -T1200 -t60
    group70         (none)          -a -d -T1200 -t180
    walldrug        1m if >4m       -d -T1200 -t300
    kremvax         2m              -d -T1200 -t180

The command C<nntpsend -s 5m -T1200 nsavax erehwon.nsavax.gov group70
group70.org> will result in the following:

    Sitename        Truncation      innxmit flags
    nsavax          5m              -T1200 -t180
    group70         5m              -T1200 -t180

Remember that B<-a> is always given when there is no size limit, and B<-t>
defaults to C<180>.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Landon Curt Noll <chongo@toad.com> and Rich $alz
<rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Converted to POD by Julien Elie.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

inn.conf(5), innxmit(1), newsfeeds(5), nntpsend.ctl(5), shlock(1),
shrinkfile(1).

=cut
