=head1 NAME

nntpget - Get Usenet articles from a remote NNTP server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<nntpget> [B<-ov>] [B<-d> I<dist>] [B<-f> I<file>] [B<-n> I<newsgroups>]
[B<-t> I<timestring>] [B<-u> I<file>] I<host>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<nntpget> connects to the NNTP server at the specified I<host> and retrieves
articles from it.  The Message-IDs of the desired articles are read from
standard input.  The articles are sent to standard output.

Instead of reading Message-IDs from standard output, the B<-d>, B<-f>,
B<-n>, B<-t> and B<-u> options make use of the C<NEWNEWS> command, which
may not be available on the remote server.  Only one of the B<-f>, B<-t>
or B<-u> option may be given at the same time; B<-d> and B<-n> can be
specified only if one of the other three options is in use.

If authentication credentials are present for the remote server in the
F<passwd.nntp> file in I<pathetc>, then B<nntpget> will use them to
authenticate.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d> I<dist>

This option may be used to specify a distribution list when using the B<-f>,
B<-t> or B<-u> options.  The default is no distribution list.

=item B<-f> I<file>

The list of article Message-IDs is normally read from standard input.
If this option is used, then a C<NEWNEWS> command is used to retrieve all
articles newer than the modification date of the specified I<file>.

=item B<-n> I<newsgroups>

If either the B<-f>, B<-t> or B<-u> options are used, then this option may be
used to limit the responses to only the newsgroups (if any) whose names match
the list.  The default is C<*>, that is to say all newsgroups are wanted.

The I<newsgroups> list can contain several patterns and wildmat characters.
For instance C<misc.*,!*.test> is a valid list that will be given to the
C<NEWNEWS> command.

=item B<-o>

This option may be used only if the command is executed on the host where the
B<innd> server is running.  If this option is used, B<nntpget> connects to
the specified remote I<host> to retrieve articles.  Any article not present
in the local F<history> database is then fetched from the remote site and
offered to the local server.

Articles are not written to standard output.  Only processed Message-IDs are,
if the B<-v> option is also used.

=item B<-t> I<timestring>

If this option is used, then the specified I<timestring> is used as the time
and date parameter to the C<NEWNEWS> command.  Only the articles arrived
in the remote server since that timestamp are retrieved.

The I<timestring> is specified as C<yyyymmdd hhmmss GMT> where C<yyyy> is the
year, C<mm> the month, C<dd> the day of the month, C<hh> the hours in the
24-hour clock, C<mm> the minutes, and C<ss> the seconds.  The token C<GMT>
specifies that the date and time are given in Coordinated Universal Time.

=item B<-u> I<file>

This option is like B<-f> except that if the transfer succeeds, the file
will be updated with a statistics line, modifying its timestamp so that it
can be used in later invocations.

=item B<-v>

If this option is used with B<-o>, then the Message-ID of each article will
be sent to standard output as it is processed.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten into
POD by Julien Elie.

=head1 SEE ALSO

innd(8), passwd.nntp(5).

=cut
