=head1 NAME

ovdb_stat - Display information from the ovdb database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ovdb_stat> [B<-Hgci>] [B<-r> I<artnumrange>] I<newsgroup> [I<newsgroup> ...]

B<ovdb_stat> B<-HklmMtv> [B<-d> I<database>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ovdb_stat> displays information from the ovdb database: S<Berkeley DB>
statistics, newsgroup data, and overview records.  The output can
optionally be in HTML format.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-g>

Newsgroup high water mark, low marker mark, article count, and flag
for the given newsgroups (as stored in the ovdb F<groupinfo> database)
are displayed.

=item B<-c>

Similar to B<-g>, except the high water mark, low water mark, and
article count are calculated by actually scanning the overview records
and counting them.  This can be a lengthy operation on groups with lots
of articles.

=item B<-i>

Internal data regarding the given newsgroups are displayed.

=item B<-r> I<artnumrange>

Overview records are retrieved.  The I<artnumrange> parameter may be
a single article number, or a range of articles in the format C<low-high>.

=item B<-H>

Output is presented in HTML format.

=item B<-k>

Displays lock region statistics, as returned by the S<Berkeley DB>
lock_stat() call.

=item B<-l>

Displays log region statistics, as returned by the S<Berkeley DB>
log_stat() call.

=item B<-m>

Displays global memory pool statistics, as returned by the
S<Berkeley DB> memp_stat() call.

=item B<-M>

Same as B<-m>, and also displays memory pool statistics for each
database file.

=item B<-t>

Displays log region statistics, as returned by the S<Berkeley DB>
txn_stat() call.

=item B<-v>

Displays ovdb version, and S<Berkeley DB> version.

=item B<-d> I<database>

Displays information about the given database, as returned by the
S<Berkeley DB> db->stat() call.  This operation may take a long time
on busy systems (several minutes or more).

=back

=head1 WARNINGS

B<ovdb_stat> may be safely killed with the INT, TERM, or HUP signals.
It catches those signals and exits cleanly.
Do not kill B<ovdb_stat> with other signals, unless absolutely necessary,
because it may leave stale locks in the database environment.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Heath Kehoe <hakehoe@avalon.net> for InterNetNews.

=head1 SEE ALSO

ovdb(5).

=cut
