=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

ovsqlite-util - Overview manipulation utility for ovsqlite

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ovsqlite-util> [B<-AFghioO>] [B<-a> I<article>] [B<-n> I<newsgroup>]
[B<-p> I<path>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ovsqlite-util> is an administrative interface to the ovsqlite overview
method for INN.  It only works on ovsqlite overview databases, not on any
other type of INN overview.  (See dedicated ovdb_stat(8) and tdx-util(8)
programs for ovdb and tradindexed overview methods.)  It allows the
administrator to dump various information about the internal state of the
overview, audit it for errors, and fix these errors.

To audit the entire overview database for problems, use B<-A>.  The checks
can take an extended period of time, depending on the number of newsgroups
and articles present in the overview database.  Any problems found will be
reported to standard error.  Use B<-F> to correct the errors found.

It is safe to run this utility while the server is running.  In case fixes
should be made to the database (when using the B<-F> flag), B<ovsqlite-util>
will properly pause the server before performing its operations, and then
resume it.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

The C<DBI> Perl module with the C<DBD::SQLite> driver must be installed for
this program to work.  They are present in most distributions as a package
named like C<libdbd-sqlite3-perl>, C<perl-DBD-SQLite> or C<p5-DBD-SQLite>.
They can also be directly installed from CPAN (C<DBI> and C<DBD-SQLite>
distributions available at L<https://metacpan.org/dist/DBI> and
L<https://metacpan.org/dist/DBD-SQLite>).

Naturally, an ovsqlite overview database also needs being in use, as detailed
in the ovsqlite(5) manual page.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a> I<article>

The article number or numbers to act on.  I<article> is a valid NNTP range,
meaning that it can be either a single article number or a range of article
numbers (like C<1-5>).  Either the start or the end (or both) of the range may
be omitted, in which case they will be set to the first or last article number
in the group.  Passing C<-> for I<article> is therefore equivalent to not
using the B<-a> option at all.

Only useful in combination with the B<-g>, B<-o> and B<-O> options to dump
overview information.

=item B<-A>

Audit the entire overview database for problems.  Currently, only one
consistency check is performed: the verification that the low water mark, the
high water mark and the article count of each newsgroup match the reality of
articles present in overview.  No changes will be made to the database, but
problems will be reported to standard error.

=item B<-F>

Audit the entire overview database for problems, fixing them as they're
detected where possible.  This runs the same checks as the B<-A> flag,
and fixes the problems found.  Using this option takes care of pausing and
resuming INN so that the overview data are not changed by another process
during the operations.

To see what would be changed by B<-F>, run B<ovsqlite-util> with B<-A> first.

=item B<-g>

Dump overall overview information for a particular group.  The fields are,
in order, the article number, the length of the overview data, the time
(in seconds since epoch) when the article arrived on the server, the time
(in seconds since epoch) when the article should expire based on its Expires
header field (or 0 if there is no Expires header field), and the storage API
token of the article.

If this option is given, the B<-n> option must also be given to specify
the newsgroup on which to act.

=item B<-i>

Dump newsgroup-related overview information from the database.  This contains
similar information to the server F<active> file, such as high and low water
marks and moderation status, and is the information that B<nnrpd> hands out
to clients.

The fields are, in order, the newsgroup name, the high water mark, the
low water mark, the count of articles in the group, the group status, the
time (in seconds since epoch) when that newsgroup was last expired (or 0 if
B<expireover> hasn't run on it yet), and the deletion status of that newsgroup
(0 if not marked for removal during the next expiration, and a positive value
otherwise).

A particular newsgroup can be specified with the B<-n> option.  If B<-n> is
not given, the entire master index will be dumped.

=item B<-n> I<newsgroup>

Specify the newsgroup on which to act, required for the B<-g>, B<-o>, and
B<-O> options, and optional for the B<-i> option.

=item B<-o>

Dump the overview information for a newsgroup, in the same format as it would
be returned to clients but with one modification.  Appended to the end of each
entry will be four additional pieces of data: the article number according
to overview information labelled with C<Article:>, the storage API token
for that article labelled with C<Token:>, the arrival date for that article
on the server in S<RFC 5322> date format labelled with C<Arrived:>, and the
expiration date for that article (from the Expires header field) in S<RFC 5322>
date format if there is any, labelled with C<Expires:>.

If this option is given, the B<-n> option must also be given to specify the
newsgroup on which to act.  By default, all of the overview information for
that newsgroup is dumped, but the B<-a> option may be given to restrict the
dump to the information for a single article or a range of article numbers.

=item B<-O>

Dump the overview information for a newsgroup in the format used by
B<overchan> as input.  Each line will start with the storage API token, the
arrival timestamp in seconds since epoch, the expires timestamp in the same
format (or 0 if there is no Expires header field), and then the overview data.

If this option is given, the B<-n> option must also be given to specify the
newsgroup on which to act.  By default, all of the overview information for
that newsgroup is dumped, but the B<-a> option may be given to restrict the
dump to the information for a single article or a range of article numbers.

=item B<-p> I<path>

Act on the overview database rooted in I<path>, overriding the overview
path specified in the I<pathoverview> parameter in F<inn.conf>.

=back

Dump newsgroup-related overview information for the overview database in
F</news/overview>, regardless of the overview path specified in F<inn.conf>:

    ovsqlite-util -i -p /news/overview

Dump overall overview information for example.test:

    ovsqlite-util -g -n example.test

Dump the complete overview information for example.test:

    ovsqlite-util -o -n example.test

Dump the overview information for articles 45 and higher in example.test:

    ovsqlite-util -o -n example.test -a 45-

Audit the entire overview database for any problems:

    ovsqlite-util -A

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Julien ÉLIE for InterNetNews.

=head1 SEE ALSO

expireover(8), makehistory(8), nnrpd(8).

=cut
