=head1 NAME

ovsqlite-server - Sole owner of the ovsqlite database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ovsqlite-server> [B<-d>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<ovsqlite-server> daemon is the only program that opens the overview
SQLite database.  It accepts connections from the other parts of INN that
want to operate on overview data (B<innd>, B<nnrpd>, B<expireover>,
B<makehistory>).

This daemon must therefore be started before any other process can access the
overview database.  B<ovsqlite-server> is normally invoked automatically by
B<rc.news> when starting the news system.  It is also stopped automatically by
B<rc.news> when stopping the news system.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d>

B<ovsqlite-server> normally puts itself into the background, points
its standard output and error to log files, and disassociates itself
from the terminal.  Using B<-d> prevents all of this, resulting in log
messages being written to the standard error output; this is generally
useful only for debugging.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item I<pathetc>/ovsqlite.conf

The configuration file.  See ovsqlite(5).

=item I<pathoverview>/ovsqlite.db

The SQLite database file.

=item I<pathrun>/ovsqlite.pid

Stores the PID of the server process while it's running.

=item I<pathrun>/ovsqlite.sock

When Unix-domain sockets are available, the server binds its listening
socket to this path.

=item I<pathrun>/ovsqlite.port

When Unix-domain sockets I<aren't> available, the server binds its
listening socket to a dynamic TCP port on the IPv4 loopback interface and
stores the port number in this file.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Initial implementation of ovsqlite written by Bo Lindbergh
<2bfjdsla52kztwejndzdstsxl9athp@gmail.com> for InterNetNews.

=head1 SEE ALSO

ovsqlite(5), rc.news(8).

=cut
