=head1 NAME

passwd.nntp - passwords for connecting to remote NNTP servers

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The file F<passwd.nntp> in I<pathetc> contains host / name / password
triplets for use when authenticating client programs to NNTP servers.
This file is normally interpreted by NNTPsendpassword() in libinn(3).
Blank lines and lines beginning with a number sign (C<#>) are ignored.
All other lines should consist of three or four fields separated by
colons:

    host:name:password
    host:name:password:style

The first field is the name of a host, and is matched in a
case-insensitive manner.  (No detailed matching, such as comparing IP
addresses, is done.)

The second field is a user name, and the third is a password.  If either
the username or password is empty, then that portion of the
authentication will not occur.  (For example, when connecting to a
remote INN for peering, only the password is needed.)

The optional fourth field specifies the type of authentication to use.
At present, the only recognized "authentication style" is C<authinfo>;
this is also the default.  It means that NNTP "authinfo" commands are
used to authenticate to the remote host.  (The C<authinfo> command is a
common extension to S<RFC 977>.)

For example:

    ##  UUNET needs a password, MIT doesn't.
    mit.edu:bbn::authinfo
    uunet.uu.net:bbn:yoyoma:authinfo

This file should not be world-readable.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

inn.conf(5), innd(8), libinn(3).

=cut
