=head1 NAME

procbatch - Process an INN funnel file or innfeed-dropped file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<procbatch> [B<-hquv>] [B<-c> [B<-s> I<spooldir>]] [B<-d> I<outdir>]
[B<-e> I<peer>] [B<-m> [B<-t> I<backlogdir>]] I<batchfile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<procbatch> will take an INN funnel or F<innfeed-dropped> file and split
it up by host for direct processing with B<innfeed> or B<innxmit>.

While funnel files will normally only be of interest after a crash,
B<innfeed> may drop articles for a variety of reasons, not all of which
indicate a fundamental problem.  For example, B<innfeed> may drop articles
when started and stopped in quick succession while INN processes a large
number of control messages (a temporary indisposition), or when INN feeds
it articles for a site that isn't in F<innfeed.conf> (a misconfiguration).

Every running B<innfeed> opens a file named F<< innfeed-dropped.<id>
>>, which should normally always be zero length and deleted on exit.
If there are non-zero length files, B<innfeed> has dropped some articles,
and those dropped article files have to be processed or those articles will
never be sent to peers.  Though B<news.daily> automatically process these
files (invoking B<procbatch>), it is also possible to do that manually.
First make sure that the file doesn't correspond to a currently running
B<innfeed>, for example by calling C<ctlinnd flush innfeed!>.

An INN funnel file, or an F<innfeed-dropped> file, will usually be of
the format:

    pathname message-id peer1 peer2 peer3 ...

where I<pathname> can alternatively be a storage API token.

B<procbatch> will break this file up into files named F<peer1.tmp>,
F<peer2.tmp>, F<peer3.tmp>, etc. of the format:

    pathname message-id

These tape files will be sorted and stripped of duplicate entries.  Simply
renaming them to F<peer1>, F<peer2>, F<peer3>, etc. in a running B<innfeed>'s
backlog directory will cause them to be picked up automatically by B<innfeed>
every I<backlog-newfile-period> seconds (as set in in F<innfeed.conf>).
Use the B<-m> flag to have B<procbatch> rename and move them into place
automatically.

After running B<procbatch>, you may want to make sure that every generated
backlog file has a corresponding C<.lock> file.  Otherwise, B<innfeed>
doesn't have that site configured as a peer, meaning your F<innfeed.conf>
may need fixing.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-c>

Check for the existence of an article before writing references to it to
the tape files.  Currently, this option can only be used with a tradspool
article store.  Using it with any other spool format will lead to all
articles being dropped.

=item B<-d> I<outdir>

Put the output file(s) into the directory I<outdir> (defaults to I<pathtmp>
as set in F<inn.conf>).  When also specifying B<-m>, the temporary output
files will still be put here before being moved into their final location.

=item B<-e> I<peer>

Only process entries for I<peer>.

=item B<-h>

Display a short help screen.

=item B<-m>

Directly append to tape files in B<innfeed>'s backlog directory.

=item B<-q>

Quiet mode:  only display error messages.

=item B<-s> I<spooldir>

Use I<spooldir> as the location of the article spool (defaults to
I<patharticles> as set in F<inn.conf>).  This option has an effect only
on a tradspool storage system when also specifying B<-c>.

=item B<-t> I<backlogdir>

Use I<backlogdir> as the location of the B<innfeed> backlog directory
(the directory where the created tape files will be put).  Defaults to
I<pathspool>/innfeed.  This option has an effect only when also specifying
B<-m>.

=item B<-u>

Unlink the input batchfile after processing.

=item B<-v>

Add verbosity.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Take the file F<innfeed-dropped.B012345>, process its lines appending to
tapefiles in B<innfeed>'s backlog directory, and remove it when done.
Be verbose while doing so:

    procbatch -umv innfeed-dropped.B012345

Go through F<innfeed-dropped.B012345> saving entries for C<peer1>
in F</tmp/peer1.tmp>, but only if the articles are still available
in the local tradspool:

    procbatch -e peer1 -d /tmp -c innfeed-dropped.B012345

=head1 BUGS

B<procbatch> should be able to check for the existence of articles
with any kind of article store, possibly using B<grephistory>.

=head1 HISTORY

B<procbatch> was written by James Brister and improved for speed by
Clayton O'Neill.

This manual page was written by Florian Schlichting, with the help of a
memo by Russ Allbery.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

filechan(8), innfeed(8), innxmit(8), news.daily(8).

=cut
