=head1 NAME

radius - nnrpd RADIUS password authenticator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<radius> [B<-h>] [B<-f> I<config>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<radius> is an nnrpd authenticator, accepting a username and password
from nnrpd (given to nnrpd by a reader connection) and attempting to
authenticate that username and password against a RADIUS server.  See
readers.conf(5) for more information on how to configure an nnrpd
authenticator.  It is useful for a site that already does user
authentication via RADIUS and wants to authenticate news reading
connections as well.

By default, B<radius> reads I<pathetc>/radius.conf for configuration
information, but a different configuration file can be specified with
B<-f>.  See radius.conf(5) for a description of the configuration file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-f> I<config>

Read I<config> instead of I<pathetc>/radius.conf for configuration
information.

=item B<-h>

Print out a usage message and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

The following readers.conf(5) fragment tells nnrpd to authenticate all
connections using this authenticator:

    auth radius {
        auth: radius
        default: <FAIL>
        default-domain: example.com
    }

C<@example.com> will be appended to the user-supplied identity, and if
RADIUS authentication failes, the user will be assigned an identity of
C<E<lt>FAILE<gt>@example.com>.

=head1 BUGS

It has been reported that this authenticator doesn't work with Ascend
RADIUS servers, but does work with Cistron RADIUS servers.  It's also
believed to work with Livingston's RADIUS server.  Contributions to make
it work better with different types of RADIUS servers would be gratefully
accepted.

This code has not been audited against the RADIUS protocol and may not
implement it correctly.

=head1 HISTORY

The RADIUS authenticator was originally written by Aidan Cully.  This
documentation was written by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

nnrpd(8), radius.conf(5), readers.conf(5)

S<RFC 2865>, Remote Authentication Dial In User Service.

=cut
