=head1 NAME

rc.news - Start or stop INN daemons

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<rc.news> [start | stop]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rc.news> can be used to start or stop B<innd> and supporting programs.
It checks to make sure INN is not already running, handles cases of
unclean shutdown, finishes up tasks which might have been interrupted by
the preceding shutdown, e-mails certain boot-time warnings to
I<newsmaster> (as set in F<inn.conf>), and is generally safer and easier
than starting and stopping everything directly.  It needs to be run as the
news user so that files in I<pathrun> are created with the right ownership
(though this is less important for C<rc.news stop>).

Programs run and stopped by this script include:

=over 4

=item *

Always:  B<innd> is started or stopped.

=item *

If I<doinnwatch> is true in F<inn.conf>:  B<innwatch> is started and
stopped.

=item *

If I<docnfsstat> is true in F<inn.conf>:  B<cnfsstat> is started and stopped.

=item *

If I<ovmethod> is set to C<ovdb> in F<inn.conf>:  B<ovdb_init> is run;
B<ovdb_server> and B<ovdb_monitor> are stopped.

=item *

If F<rc.news.local> exists in I<pathbin>:  B<rc.news.local> is run with
argument C<start> or C<stop> (to perform site-specific startup or shutdown
tasks).

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item C<start>

If the first argument is C<start>, or no first argument is given,
B<rc.news> initiates INN startup.

=item C<stop>

If the first argument is C<stop>, B<rc.news> initiates INN shutdown.  It
is recommended to throttle the server first as described in ctlinnd(8).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To start INN and leave certain error messages going to the terminal:

       su - news -s /bin/sh -c <pathbin in inn.conf>/rc.news

To run INN at startup time from appropriate system boot scripts:

       su - news -s /bin/sh -c <pathbin>/rc.news >/dev/console

To stop INN (throttling first):

       <pathbin>/ctlinnd throttle reason
       su - news -s /bin/sh -c '<pathbin>/rc.news stop'

=head1 BUGS

Running C<rc.news start> as root is never the right thing to do, so we
should at minimum check for this and error, or perhaps change effective
user ID.

=head1 HISTORY

// FIXME:  any attribution for F<rc.news> itself?

This manual page written by Jeffrey S<M. Vinocur> <jeff@litech.org> for
InterNetNews.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

ctlinnd(8), cnfsstat(8), inn.conf(5), innwatch(8), ovdb(5).

=cut
