=head1 Welcome to S<INN 2.5>!

This is the current development version of S<INN 2.5>.  This code is under
active development and may or may not be stable at any given time.
Contributions and bug reports are welcome and encouraged.

This work is sponsored by Internet Systems Consortium.

Please see F<INSTALL> for installation instructions, F<NEWS> for what's
changed from the previous release, and F<LICENSE> for the copyright,
license, and distribution terms.

=head1 What is INN?

INN (InterNetNews), originally written by Rich Salz, is an extremely
flexible and configurable Usenet / netnews news server.  For a complete
description of the protocols behind Usenet and netnews, see S<RFC 1036> and
S<RFC 977> (or their replacements).  In brief, netnews is a set of protocols
for exchanging messages between a decentralized network of news servers.
News articles are organized into newsgroups, which are themselves
organized into hierarchies.  Each individual news server stores locally
all articles it has received for a given newsgroup, making access to
stored articles extremely fast.  Netnews does not require any central
server; instead, each news server passes along articles it receives to all
of the news servers it peers with, those servers pass the articles along
to their peers, and so on, resulting in "flood fill" propagation of news
articles.

A news server performs three basic functions:  it accepts articles from
other servers and stores them on disk, sends articles it has received out
to other servers, and offers stored news articles to readers on demand.
It additionally has to perform some periodic maintenance tasks, such as
deleting older articles to make room for new ones.

Originally, a news server would just store all of the news articles it had
received in a file system.  Users could then read news by reading the
article files on disk (or more commonly using news reading software that
did this efficiently).  These days, news servers are almost always
stand-alone systems and news reading is supported via network connections.
A user who wants to read a newsgroup opens that newsgroup in their
newsreader software, which opens a network connection to the news server
and sends requests for articles and related information.  The protocol
that a newsreader uses to talk to a news server and that a news server
uses to talk to another news server over TCP/IP is called NNTP (Network
News Transport Protocol).

INN supports accepting articles via either NNTP connections or via UUCP.
B<innd>, the heart of INN, handles NNTP feeding connections directly;
UUCP newsfeeds use B<rnews> (included in INN) to hand articles off to
innd.  Other parts of INN handle feeding articles out to other news
servers, most commonly B<innfeed> (for real-time outgoing feeds) or
B<nntpsend> and B<innxmit> (used to send batches of news created by innd
to a remote site via TCP/IP).  INN can also handle outgoing UUCP feeds.

The part of INN that handles connections from newsreaders is nnrpd.

Also included in INN are a wide variety of supporting programs to handle
periodic maintenance and recovery from crashes, process special control
messages, maintain the list of active newsgroups, and generate and record
a staggering variety of statistics and summary information on the usage
and performance of the server.

INN also supports an extremely powerful filtering system that allows the
server administrator to reject unwanted articles (such as spam and other
abuses of Usenet).

INN is free software, supported by Internet Systems Consortium and
volunteers around the world.  See L<"Supporting the INN Effort"> below.

=head1 Prerequisites

Compiling INN requires an S<ANSI C> compiler (gcc is recommended).  INN was
originally written in S<K&R C>, but supporting pre-ANSI compilers has become
enough of a headache that a lot of the newer parts of INN will no longer
compile with a non-ANSI compiler.  gcc itself will compile with most
vendor non-ANSI compilers, however, so if you're stuck with one,
installing gcc is highly recommended.  Not only will it let you build INN,
it will make installing lots of other software much easier.  You may also
need GNU make (particularly if your system make is BSD-derived), although
most SysV make programs should work fine.  Compiling INN also currently
requires a yacc implementation (bison will do fine).

INN uses GNU autoconf to probe the capabilities of your system, and
therefore should compile on nearly any Unix system.  It does, however,
make extensive use of mmap(), which can cause problems on some older
operating systems.  See F<INSTALL> for a list of systems it is known to
work on.  If you encounter problems compiling or running INN, or if you
successfully run INN on a platform that isn't listed in F<INSTALL>, please
let us know (see L<"Reporting Bugs"> below).

S<Perl 5.003> or later is required to build INN.  S<Perl 5.004> is required if
you want the embedded Perl filter support (which is highly recommended;
some excellent spam filters have been written for INN).  Since all
versions of Perl previous to 5.004 are buggy (including security problems)
and have fewer features, installing S<Perl 5.004> or later is recommended.

If you want to enable PGP verification of control messages (highly
recommended), you will need to have a PGP implementation installed.  See
F<INSTALL> for more details.

=head1 Getting Started

A news server can be a fairly complicated piece of software to set up just
because of the wide variety of pieces that have to be configured (who is
authorized to read from the server, what newsgroups it carries, and how
the articles are stored on disk at a bare minimum, and if the server isn't
completely stand-alone S<-- and> very few servers S<are --> both incoming and
outgoing feeds have to be set up and tested).  Be prepared to take some
time to understand what's going on and how all the pieces fit together.
If you have any specific suggestions for documentation, or comments about
things that are unclear, please send them to the INN maintainers (see
L<"Reporting Bugs"> below).

See F<INSTALL> for step-by-step instructions for setting up and
configuring a news server.

INN also comes with a very complete set of man pages; there is a man page
for every configuration file and program that comes with INN.  (If you
find one that doesn't have a man page, that's a bug.  Please do report
it.)  When trying to figure out some specific problem, reading the man
pages for all of the configuration files involved is a very good start.

=head1 Reporting Bugs

We're interested in all bug reports.  Not just on the programs, but on the
documentation too.  Please send I<all> such reports to

    inn-workers@lists.isc.org

(patches are certainly welcome, see below).  Even if you post to Usenet,
please CC the above address.

If you have general "how do I do this" questions or problems configuring
your server that you don't believe are due to a bug in INN, you should
post them to news.software.nntp.  A lot of experienced INN users,
including several of the INN maintainers, read that newsgroup regularly.
Please don't send general questions to the above addresses; those
addresses are specifically for INN, and the INN maintainers usually won't
have time to answer general questions.

=head1 Contributing Code

If you have a patch or a utility that you'd like to be considered for
inclusion into INN, please mail it to

    inn-workers@lists.isc.org

in the body of the message (not as an attachment because the mailing-list
might strip it), or put it on a webpage and send a link.  Patches included
with a bug report as described above should follow the same procedure.

Have fun!

=head1 Mailing Lists

There are various INN-related mailing lists you can join or send messages
to if you like.  Some of them you must be a member of before you can send
mail to them (thank the spammers for that policy), and one of them is
read-only (no postings allowed).

=over 24

=item inn-announce@lists.isc.org

Where announcements about INN are set (only maintainers may post).

=item inn-workers@lists.isc.org

Discussion of INN development.  It is also where to send bug reports
and patches for consideration for inclusion into INN (postings by
members only).  If you're an INN expert and have the time to help
out other users, we encourage you to join this mailing list to answer
questions.  (You may also want to read the newsgroup news.software.nntp,
which gets a lot of INN-related questions.)

=item inn-committers@lists.isc.org

Subversion commit messages for INN are sent to this list (only the automated
messages are sent here, no regular posting).

=item inn-bugs@lists.isc.org

Trac tickets for INN are sent to this list (only the automated messages
are sent here, no regular posting).  Bug reports should be sent to
the inn-workers mailing list.

=back

To join these lists, send a subscription request to the C<-request>
address.  The addresses for the above lists are:

   inn-announce-request@lists.isc.org
   inn-workers-request@lists.isc.org
   inn-committers-request@lists.isc.org
   inn-bugs-request@lists.isc.org

=head1 Who's Responsible / Who to Thank

See F<CONTRIBUTORS> for a long list of past contributors as well as people
from the inn-workers mailing list who have dedicated a lot of time and
effort to getting this new version together.  They deserve a big round of
applause.  They've certainly got our thanks.

This product includes software developed by UUNET Technologies, Inc. and
by the University of California, Berkeley and its contributors.

Last, but certainly not least, Rich Salz, the original author of INN
deserves a lion's share of the credit for writing INN in the first place
and making it the most popular news server software on the planet (no NNTP
yet to the moon, but we plan to be there first).

=head1 Related Packages

INN users may also be interested in the following software packages that
work with INN or are based on it.  Please note that none of this software
is developed or maintained by ISC; we don't support it and generally can't
answer questions about it.

=over 4

=item Cleanfeed

URL:  L<http://www.mixmin.net/cleanfeed/> (maintained by Steve Crook)
URL:  L<http://www.bofh.it/~md/cleanfeed/> (previous version by Marco d'Itri)

Cleanfeed is an extremely powerful spam filter, probably the most widely
used spam filter on Usenet currently.  It catches excessive multiposting
and a host of other things, and is highly configurable.  Note that it
requires that INN be built with Perl support (the B<--with-perl> option to
configure).

=item GUP (Group Update Program)

URL:  L<ftp://ftp.debian.org/debian/pool/main/g/gup/>

GUP provides a way for your peers to update their F<newsfeeds> entries as
they want without having to ask you to edit the configuration file all the
time.  It's useful when feeding peers take limited and very specific
feeds that change periodically.

=item inflow

URL:  L<http://www.switch.ch/netnews/wg/netnews-wg.html>

B<inflow> generates graphs of news flow statistics in real time from INN's
logs (things like articles accepted per peer, volume accepted per peer,
and the like).

=item NewsPortal

URL:  L<http://amrhein.eu/newsportal/>

A PHP-based web news reader that works as a front-end to a regular news
server such as INN and lets people read and post without learning a news
reader.

=item PersonalINN

URL:  L<http://www.ritual.org/summer/pinn/>

PersonalINN is a version of INN modified for personal use and with a
friendly GUI built on top of it.  It is available for NEXTSTEP or OPENSTEP
only, unfortunately.

=item suck

URL:  L<http://packages.debian.org/suck>

B<suck> is a separate package for downloading a news feed via a reading
connection (rather than via a direct NNTP or UUCP feed) and sending
outgoing local posts via POST.  It's intended primarily for personal or
small-organization news servers who get their news via an ISP and are too
small to warrant setting up a regular news feed.

=item newsx

URL:  L<http://packages.debian.org/newsx>

Serving the same purpose as B<suck>, B<newsx> is a separate package for
downloading a news feed via a reading connection and sending outgoing
local posts via POST.  Some people find B<suck> easier to configure and use,
and some people find B<newsx> easier.  If you have problems with one, try the
other.

=back

=head1 Supporting the INN Effort

Note that INN is supported by Internet Systems Consortium, and although it
is free for use and redistribution and incorporation into vendor products
and export and anything else you can think of, it costs money to produce.
That money comes from ISPs, hardware and software vendors, companies who
make extensive use of the software, and generally kind-hearted folk such
as yourself.

Internet Systems Consortium has also commissioned a DHCP server
implementation and handles the official support/release of BIND.  You can
learn more about the ISC's goals and accomplishments from the web page at
<https://www.isc.org/>.

                                        Russ Allbery
                                        Katsuhiro Kondou
                                        <inn@isc.org>

$Id$

=cut
