=head1 NAME

rnews - Inject individual articles and UUCP batches into INN

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<rnews> [B<-NUv>] [B<-h> I<host>] [B<-P> I<port>] [B<-rS> I<server>]
[I<file>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rnews> injects either individual articles or UUCP-style article batches
into an INN server.  It submits articles via IHAVE and is suitable for
injecting articles received from other sources; local postings should
generally use inews(1) instead.  It is also used to process spooled
messages created by, for example, B<nnrpd> while B<innd> is not available.

The message is read from I<file> if given, or standard input if no file is
given.  Articles are sent to the server given in the B<-r> or B<-S>
command line options if given, otherwise to the server set via
I<nnrpdposthost> in F<inn.conf>, otherwise to the local server.

When sent over UUCP, Usenet articles are typically collected in a single
batch to reduce the UUCP overhead.  Batches can also be compressed to
reduce communication time.  If the input to B<rnews> does not begin with
the characters C<#!>, it is taken to be a single news article; otherwise,
the first line of the input is interpreted as a batch command.

If the batch command is:

    #! rnews <number>

then the next <number> bytes (starting with the next line) are read as a
news article.  After that article is processed, the next line is again
treated as a batch command.

If the command is:

    #! cunbatch

then the rest of the input is fed to C<gzip -d> to uncompress it, and then
the resulting uncompressed output is re-read as if it were the original
input to B<rnews>.  A compressed batch should therefore start with this
line and contain a batch of articles separated by C<S<#! rnews>> lines and
then compressed with compress(1).  (Batches compressed with gzip(1) should
instead use C<gunbatch> as the batch command; INN just uses B<gzip> rather
than B<compress> because it can handle B<compress>-style compression but
is more widely available, due to old patent issues, than B<compress>.)

Otherwise, if the command is any other word, then B<rnews> will try to
execute a program with that name, looking for it in the directory
I<pathbin>/bin/rnews.libexec.  The rest of the batch will be fed to that
program's standard input, and the standard output from the program will be
treated as if it were the original input to B<rnews>.  INN comes with three
such standard batch processors:

=over 2

=item B<bunbatch>

It invokes B<bzip2> and should be used for batches compressed with B<bzip2>.

=item B<c7unbatch>

It undoes an ASCII encoding to recover the original binary compressed stream
and then decompresses it as explained above.

=item B<gunbatch>

It invokes B<gzip> and should be used for batches compressed with B<gzip>.

=back

By default, B<rnews> will log and discard any articles that are rejected
by the server or cannot be parsed by B<rnews> for some reason (such as a
missing header).  This default can be changed when compiling INN by
setting DO_RNEWS_SAVE_BAD in F<include/inn/options.h>.  There is no way to
change it at runtime, unfortunately.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h> I<host>

If B<-h> is given, B<rnews> will log the message ID and I<host> via syslog
for each article that it offers to the server.  This is used in
conjunction with a UUCP feed to get a log of the messages received via
that feed.  This will also be done if the environment variable UU_MACHINE
is set, but will only be done if I<host> is not an empty string.  (You can
therefore turn off logging even if UU_MACHINE will be set by passing the
flag C<-h ''> to B<rnews>.)

=item B<-N>

Normally, if unpacking the input batch fails, it is re-spooled to
I<pathincoming> for another attempt later.  If the B<-N> flag is given, no
such re-spooling is done and B<rnews> will instead exit with status 9 if
unpacking fails.

=item B<-P> I<port>

Use I<port> as the server port to connect to rather than I<nnrpdpostport>
(as set in F<inn.conf>).  Note that this value is only used if B<rnews>
does not connect to the local server (in other words, when B<-r> or B<-S>
is given or I<nnrpdposthost> is set).

=item B<-r> I<server>, B<-S> I<server>

B<-r> and B<-S> are synonymous.  If either is given, articles will be sent
to I<server> rather than using the local server, overriding also the
setting of I<nnrpdposthost> in F<inn.conf>.

=item B<-U>

If the server is not available, both B<rnews> and B<nnrpd> will spool
posts to new files in the I<pathincoming> directory (as specified in
F<inn.conf>).  When B<rnews> is invoked with the B<-U> option, it scans
that directory and processes all spooled messages found there whose
filenames do not begin with C<.>, attempting to send them to the server
again.  It's a good idea to run this periodically out of cron to pick up
any articles spooled due to temporary server unavailability.

=back

=head1 BUGS

B<rnews> cannot process articles that have embedded nul characters in
them.  (Neither can the rest of INN at present.)

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten in
POD by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

bzip2(1), compress(1), gzip(1), inn.conf(5), innd(8), nnrpd(8).

=cut
