=head1 NAME

sasl.conf - SASL Configuration file for nnrpd.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The file F<sasl.conf> in I<pathetc> specifies Simple Authentication
and Security Layer (SASL), defined in RFC 2222, for nnrpd.
Now nnrpd implements only Security Layer support, which is an extension
of RFC 2595. This means you can get SSL or TLS encrypted NNRP between
your server and newsreaders. It requires OpenSSL 0.9.3 or newer from
http://www.openssl.org/; it has been tested with versions 0.9.4 and 0.9.5.

=head1 INSTALLATION

To use SSL, a certificate and private key are needed that you can
create using the openssl binary. 
Make certain that each keys are owned by your news user, news group,
and are mode 0640 or 0660.

=head2 EXAMPLE

   openssl req -new -x509 -nodes -out /usr/local/news/lib/cert.pem\
    -days 366 -keyout /usr/local/news/lib/cert.pem
   chown news:news /usr/local/news/lib/cert.pem
   chmod 640 /usr/local/news/lib/cert.pem

You also can make the keys as the root user with C<make cert>.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Comments begin with a number  sign  (C<#>)  and  continue through the 
end of the line.  Blank lines and comments are ignored.
All other lines specify parameters, and should be of the form

    <option>: <value>

where <option> is the name of the configuration option being set and
<value> is the value that the configuration option is being set to.

Blank lines and lines beginning with (C<#>) are ignored.
For boolean options, the values  C<yes>,  C<on>,  C<t>,
and  C<1> turn the option on; the values C<no>, C<off>,
C<f>, and C<0> turn the option off.

=over 4

=item tls_cert_file

The path to a file containing the server's certificate.

=item tls_key_file

The path to a file containing the server's private key.

=item tls_ca_path

The path to a directory containing the CA's certificate.

=item tls_ca_file

The path to a file containing the CA's certificate.

=back

=head1 TO DO

Implement methods of the authentication protocols of SASL.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Kenichi OKADA E<lt>okada@opaopa.orgE<gt> for InterNetNews.

=head1 SEE ALSO

inn.conf(5), innd(8), nnrpd(8), readers.conf(5)

=cut
