=head1 NAME

scanlogs - Summarize and rotate INN log files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<scanlogs> [B<norotate>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<scanlogs> summarizes the information recorded in the INN log files which
reside in the I<pathlog> directory set in F<inn.conf> (see newslog(5) for
further details about these log files).  It is normally invoked by the
news.daily(8) script which performs daily server maintenance tasks.

It invokes C<ctlinnd flushlogs> to close the news and error log files,
rename them to add C<.old> to the file names and open fresh news and
error logs; the F<active> file is also flushed to disk, along with the
history database.

By default, B<scanlogs> rotates and cleans out the logs.  It keeps up to
I<logcycles> old compressed log files in I<pathlog>/OLD (the I<logcycles>
parameter can be set in F<inn.conf>).   B<scanlogs> also keeps archives
of the F<active> file in this directory.

It invokes B<tally.control> if F<newgroup.log> or F<rmgroup.log> exists
in I<pathlog> (see the F<control.log> entry of newslog(5) for more
information about that).

B<scanlogs> displays the contents of F<errlog> and F<news.crit>, if non-empty,
and runs B<innreport> to summarize the contents of F<news> and F<news.notice>,
and to update the F<unwanted.log> file amongst other things (see more
information about that in innreport(8)).

=head1 OPTIONS

Only one option is currently accepted:

=over 4

=item B<norotate>

Using this option disables the rotating and cleaning aspect of the log
processing:  the logs files are only scanned for information and no contents
are altered.  If B<scanlogs> is invoked more than once a day, the B<norotate>
option should be used to prevent premature log cleaning.

=back

=head1 FILES

See newslog(5) for the list of log files processed by B<scanlogs>.

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Landon Curt Noll <chongo@toad.com> and Rich $alz
<rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Converted to POD by Julien Elie
<julien@trigofacile.com>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

inn.conf(5), innreport(8), news.daily(8), newslog(5), shlock(1),
tally.control(8).

=cut
