=head1 NAME

sendinpaths - Send Usenet Path: statistics via e-mail

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sendinpaths> [B<-cdhn>] [B<-k> I<keep-days>] [B<-r> I<report-days>]
[I<address> [I<address> ...]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<sendinpaths> checks I<pathlog>/path for B<ninpaths> dump files, finds
dump files generated in the past I<report-days> days, makes sure they are valid
by running B<ninpaths> on each one and making sure the exit status is
zero, and passes them to B<ninpaths> to generate a cumulative report.
By default, that report is mailed to the e-mail addresses configured at
the beginning of this script (by default <pathsurvey@top1000.org> and
<top1000@anthologeek.net>) in order to supply the TOP1000 project with
useful statistics:  see L<http://www.top1000.org/> for more information.

When finished, B<sendinpaths> deletes all dump files in I<pathlog>/path
that are older than I<keep-days> days.

For more information on how to set up B<ninpaths>, see ninpaths(8).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-c>

When this flag is used, the report is also e-mailed, besides the default
submission addresses or those given as command-line arguments, to the
newsmaster's address set at configure time.

=item B<-d>

Enables debug messages.

=item B<-h>

Gives usage information.

=item B<-k> I<keep-days>

After having processed dump files, B<sendinpaths> removes those that are
older than I<keep-days> days.  The default is C<0>, that is to say to
remove all dump files.

Setting I<keep-days> to another value can be useful for debugging purpose
because it permits to keep a few dump files.

=item B<-n>

Don't e-mail the report; instead, just print it to standard output.  Don't
delete old dump files.

=item B<-r> I<report-days>

Process dump files generated during the last I<report-days> days.
The default is C<32>, that is to say to process all the dump files that
have been generated during the last 32 days (if, of course, they have
not been deleted yet by a previous run of B<sendinpaths> according to the
value set by the B<-k> flag).

=item I<address> ...

E-mail the report to the mentioned addresses instead of the default ones.
Several addresses can be used, separated by whitespace.  For instance,
for two adresses:

    sendinpaths pathsurvey@top1000.org top1000@anthologeek.net

=back

=head1 HISTORY

B<sendinpaths> was written by Olaf Titz <olaf@bigred.inka.de>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

ninpaths(8).

=cut
