=head1 NAME

shlock - Create lock files for use in shell scripts

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<shlock> [B<-b>|B<-c>|B<-u>] B<-f> I<name> B<-p> I<pid>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<shlock> tries to create a lock file named I<name> and write
the process ID I<pid> into it.  If the file already exists, B<shlock>
will read the process ID from the file and test to see whether
the process is currently running.  If the process exists, then the file
will not be created.  I<shlock> exits with a zero status if it could
create the lock file, or non-zero if the file refers to a currently
active process.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-b> 

Process IDs are normally read and written in ASCII.  If the B<-b> flag
is used, then they will be written as a binary int.

=item B<-c> 

If the B<-c> flag is used, then B<shlock> will not create a lock file,
but will instead use the file to see if the lock is held by another program.
If the lock is valid, the program will exit with a non-zero status;
if the lock is not valid (i.e. invoking B<shlock> without the flag would
have succeeded), then the program will exit with a zero status.

=item B<-f> I<name>

I<name> is the name of the lock file B<shlock> attempts to create.
If the file already exists, it will read the process ID from the file
and exit with a non-zero status if this process is currently active.

=item B<-p> I<pid>

I<pid> is the process ID to write into the file I<name>.

=item B<-u>

For compatibility with other systems, the B<-u> flag is accepted
as a synonym for B<-b> since binary locks are used by many UUCP packages.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows how B<shlock> would be used within
a shell script:

    LOCK=<pathrun in inn.conf>/LOCK.send
    trap 'rm -f ${LOCK} ; exit 1' 1 2 3 15
    if shlock -p $$ -f ${LOCK} ; then
        # Do appropriate work.
    else
        echo "Locked by `cat ${LOCK}`"
    fi

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews after
a description of HDB UUCP locking given by Peter Honeyman, and
improved by Berend Reitsma to solve a race condition.
Converted to POD by Julien Elie <julien@trigofacile.com>.

$Id$

=cut
