=head1 NAME

tally.control - Keep track of newsgroup creations and deletions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tally.control> < I<logfile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tally.control> is normally daily invoked by B<scanlogs>.  It reads its
standard input, which should be the F<newgroup.log> and F<rmgroup.log>
control log files.  They contain a summary line describing the control
message and the action taken by B<controlchan>, followed by the article
indented by four spaces, and a blank line.  Then, B<tally.control> updates
the cumulative list of newsgroup creations and deletions which is kept
in F<control.log>.

All these log files reside in the I<pathlog> directory set in F<inn.conf>.
In order to generate them, you need to enable control articles logging
in control.ctl(5), as explained in the F<control.log> entry of newslog(5).

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item I<pathbin>/tally.control

The Shell script itself used to tally newsgroup creations and deletions up.

=item I<pathlog>/control.log

This file maintains a count of the number of newgroup and rmgroup control
messages seen for each newsgroup.  The count is of the number of control
messages with the indicated arguments, regardless if they were actually
processed.  All control arguments, including invalid ones, are counted.
An example of lines which can be found in that log file is:

    3 Control: newgroup foo.bar moderated
    3 Control: rmgroup misc.removed
    1 Control: newgroup misc.created

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Written by Landon Curt Noll <chongo@toad.com> and Rich $alz
<rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.  Rewritten and converted
to POD by Julien Elie <julien@trigofacile.com>.

$Id$

=head1 SEE ALSO

control.ctl(5), news.daily(8), newslog(5), scanlogs(8).

=cut
