.\" $Revision$
.TH CYCBUFF.CONF 5
.SH NAME
cycbuff.conf \- configuration file for CNFS method
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I <pathetc in inn.conf>/cycbuff.conf
is required if CNFS (Cyclic News File System) method is used.
CNFS is one of storage method which can be defined at
.IR storage.conf (5).
.PP
The file consists of a series of lines;
blank lines and lines beginning with a number sign (``#'') are ignored.
There are four kinds of configuration lines: ``cycbuffupdate'',
``refreshinterval'', ``cycbuff'' and ``metacycbuff.''
The order of lines in this file is not important among the same kind of
configuration line.  But all ``cycbuff'' lines should be presented before
any ``metacycbuff'' lines.
.PP
\&``Cycbuffupdate'' line is formatted as:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cycbuffupdate:update
.fi
.RE
.PP
\&``Update'' is how many article-stores between cycbuff header updates.
This line can be omitted and the default value is ``25.''
.PP
\&``Refreshinterval'' line is formatted as:
.PP
.RS
.nf
refreshinterval:interval
.fi
.RE
.PP
\&``Inerval'' is what interval (seconds) between rereading cycbuff header if
cycbuff is preopend. (This is in the case
.IR nnrpd (8)
runs as a daemon.)
This line can be omitted and the default value is ``30.''
.PP
\&``Cycbuff'' line is formatted as:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cycbuff:buffer_name:file_name:buffer_size
.fi
.RE
.PP
\&``Buffer_name'' is the symbolic name of the buffer.
The length of this name should be within 7 letters.
This name is referred at ``metacycbuff'' lines.
\&``File_name'' is the path to buffer file.
The length of this path should be within 63 letters.
\&``Buffer_size'' is the length of buffer file in kilobytes
in decimal (1KB = 1024 bytes).  If the ``file_name'' is not a special
device, the file should be buffer_size * 1024 bytes.
.PP
\&``Metacycbuff'' line is formatted as:
.PP
.RS
.nf
metacycbuff:meta_cyclic_buffer_name:buffer_names
.fi
.RE
.PP
\&``Meta_cyclic_buffer_name'' is the symbolic name of meta-cyclic buffer.
This name is referred at ``options'' field at ``cnfs'' lines in
.IR storage.conf (5).
\&``Buffer_names'' is comma separated list of buffer names of ``cycbuff.''
These buffer names should be defined at ``metacycbuff'' lines.
If ``buffer_names'' has more than one buffer names, CNFS method
stores articles into each ``cycbuff'' in order cyclically.
.PP
Also it is necessary to set up ``options'' field at ``cnfs'' lines in
.IR storage.conf (5)
to use CNFS method.
That field should be one of ``meta_cyclic_buffer_name'' defined at
\&``metacycbuff'' lines.
.PP
To create new ``cycbuff'', there are two different methods for creating
the cyclic buffer files.
.TP
.BR 1. " Create a big file on top of a standard filesystem."
The use "dd" to create the ``cycbuff''
files, such as "dd if=/dev/zero of=/path/to/cycbuff bs=32k count=N"
where N is the buffer_size divided by 32.
.TP
.BR 2. " Use block disk devices directly."
If your operating system will allow you to
.I mmap()
block disk devices (Solaris does, FreeBSD does not), this is the
recommended method.  Partition the disks to make each partition
slightly larger (a few MB larger) than the intended size of each cycbuff.
It is not recommend to use the block device files already located in ``/dev.''
Instead, use "mknod" to create a new set of block device files.
In order to do this, do an "ls -l" of the /dev/dsk partition and then a
subsequent "ls -l" of the destination of the symbolic link under /devices.
The major and minor device numbers are in the fifth and sixth columns (right
before the date) respectively.  This information should be fed to "mknod"
to make a "block-type special file" (b).
Here is a short script that accomplishes this when fed the /dev/dsk/
partition name:
.sp 1
.nf
.in +0.5i
#!/bin/sh
disk=$1
link=`ls -l /dev/dsk/$disk | awk '{print $11}'`
major=`ls -l /dev/dsk/$link | awk '{print $5}' | tr -d ,`
minor=`ls -l /dev/dsk/$link | awk '{print $6}`
mkdir /cycbuff
mknod /cycbuff/$disk b $major $minor
.in -0.5i
.fi
The created device files themselves consume very little space.
.PP
In either case, make certain that each cycbuff file is owned by your
news user, news group, and has rw modes for the owner and group (mode
0664 or 0660).
.PP
When you first start innd and everything is configured properly, you
should see messages in news.notice which look like:
.sp 1   
.nf
.in +0.5i
Mar 1 00:00:00 kevlar innd: CNFS-sm No magic cookie found for cycbuff ONE, initializing
.in -0.5i
.fi
.SH HISTORY
Written by Katsuhiro Kondou <kondou@nec.co.jp> for InterNetNews.
.de R$
This is revision \\$3, dated \\$4.
..
.R$ $Id$
.SH "SEE ALSO"
inn.conf(5),
storage.conf(5).
