.\" $Revision$
.TH EXPIREOVER 8
.SH NAME
expireover \- Expire entries from the news overview database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B expireover
[
.B \-e
]
[
.BI \-f " file"
]
[
.B \-k
]
[
.B \-N
]
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.BI \-w " number"
]
[
.BI \-z " rmfile"
]
[
.BI \-Z " lofile"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Expireover
expires entries from the news overview database.
It reads a list of newsgroup list (
.IR <pathdb\ in\ inn.conf>/active ).
(A file name of ``\-'' may be used to specify the standard input.)
It then removes any mention of those articles from the appropriate overview
database.
If ``groupbaseexpiry'' in
.I inn.conf
is ``true'',
.I expireover
also expires articles.  If it's ``false'', ``\fB\-e\fP'', ``\fB\-k\fP'',
\&``\fB\-N\fP'', ``\fB\-p\fP'', ``\fB\-q\fP'', ``\fB\-w\fP'' and ``\fB\-z\fP''
flags are ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
If the ``\fB\-e\fP'' flag is used, then as soon as the first cross posting
of the article expires, all overview entries relevant to the article are
removed.
Note that you cannot use both ``\fB\-e\fP'' and ``\fB\-k\fP'' flag at the
same time.
.TP
.B \-f
When the ``\fB\-f\fP'' flag is used, then
.I expireover
will use it as newsgroup list instead of
.I <pathdb in inn.conf>/active
file.  A name of ``\fB\-\fP'' is taken to mean the standard input.
.TP
.B \-k
When the ``\fB\-k\fP'' flag is used, then
articles are removed when they have been 
expired from all the groups they appear in.
Note that you cannot use both ``\fB\-e\fP'' and ``\fB\-k\fP'' flag at the
same time.
.TP
.B \-N 
If the storing method has self expire functionality, then the control file
is ignored for that article by default.
If the ``\fB\-N\fP'' flag is used,
.I expireover
purges articles and overview entries with the control file.
.TP 
.B \-p
.I Expireover
makes its decisions on the time the article arrived by default.
This means articles are often kept a little longer than with other
expiration programs that base their decisions on the article's posting
date.
To use the article's posting date, use the ``\fB\-p\fP'' flag.
.TP
.B \-q 
.I Expireover
normally prints statistics at the end of process.
To suppress this action, use the ``\fB\-q\fP'' flag.
.TP
.B \-s 
.I Expireover
normally checks the existense of articles only if ``EXPENSIVESTAT'' of
its storage method is set to ``FALSE''.  To do stat all articles regardless
of ``EXPENSIVESTAT'', use the ``\fB\-s\fP'' flag.  See
.IR storage.conf (5)
for ``EXPENSIVESTAT''.
.TP
.B \-w
Use the ``\fB\-w\fP'' flag to ``warp'' time so that
.I expireover
thinks it is running at some time other then the current time.
The value should be a signed floating point number of the number of days
to use as the offset.
.TP 
.B \-z
If the ``\fB\-z\fP'' flag is used, then articles are not removed, but their
toknes are appended to the specified
.IR file .
See the description of
.I delayrm
in 
.IR news.daily (8).
.TP
.B \-Z
If the ``\fB\-Z\fP'' flag is used, then the lowest article numbers for
each newsgroup after expiry are written to the specified
.I lofile
with newsgroup name.
This flag can be used when doing ``ctlinnd lomark lofile''.
.SH HISTORY
Written by Rob Robertson <rob@violet.berkeley.edu>
and Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net>
(with help from Dave Lawrence <tale@uunet.uu.net>)
for InterNetNews.
.de R$
This is revision \\$3, dated \\$4.
..
.R$ $Id$
.SH "SEE ALSO"
active(5),
ctlinnd(8).
inn.conf(5),
news.daily(8).
