.\" $Revision$
.TH EXPIREINDEX 8
.SH NAME
expireindex \- Expire entries from the news overview index
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B expireindex
[
.BI \-D " overviewdir"
]
[
.B \-n
]
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-z
]
[
.I file...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Expireindex
expires entries from the news overview database index.
It reads a list of newsgroup and article number, from the specified
.I files
or standard input if none are specified.
(A file name of ``\-'' may be used to specify the standard input.)
Each line should consist of 2 fields specified by a colon:
.PP
.RS
.nf
        newsgroupname:aritclenumber
.fi
.RE
.PP
The first field is the name of the newsgroup.  A period ``.'' in the
newsgroup name should be a slash ``/''.
The second field is an article number to be expired.
It then removes any mention of those articles from the appropriate overview
database index.
.PP
If you have turned off the storage manager with the 'storageapi' in
inn.conf (5), you need to use expireover (8) to expire overveiw.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-D
The ``\-D'' flag can be used to specify where the databases are stored.
The default directory is
.\" =()<.IR @<_PATH_OVERVIEWDIR>@ .>()=
.IR /var/news/spool/over.view .
.TP
.B \-n
To perform no real updates, use the ``\fB\-n\fP'' flag.
.TP
.B \-q
Not to tell lock file open failure, use the ``\fB\-q\fP'' flag.
.TP
.B \-v
To see a list of the entries that would be added or deleted, use 
the ``\fB\-v\fP''
flag.
.TP
.B \-z
If the ``\fB\-z\fP'' flag is used, then the input is assumed to be sorted such
that all entries for a newsgroup appear together so that it can be purged
at once.
This flag can be useful when used with the sorted output of
.IR expire (8)'s
\&``\fB\-z\fP'' flag.
.SH HISTORY
Written by Katsuhiro Kondou <kondou@nec.co.jp>
for InterNetNews.
.de R$
This is revision \\$3, dated \\$4.
..
.R$ $Id$
.SH "SEE ALSO"
expire(8),
expireover(8),
