.\" $Revision$
.TH GETLIST 1
.SH NAME
getlist \- get a list from an NNTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I getlist
[
.B \-A
]
[
.BI \-h " host"
]
[
.I list
[
.I pattern
[
.I types
]
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I getlist
program obtains a list from an NNTP server and sends
it to standard output.
.PP
The
.B list
may be one of
.IR active ,
.IR active.times ,
.IR distributions ,
or
.IR newsgroups .
These values request the
.IR active ,
.IR active.times ,
.IR <pathetc\ in\ inn.conf>/distributions .
or
.I <pathdb in inn.conf>/newsgroups
files, respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A
If the ``\fB\-A\fP'' flag is used, then the program tries to authenticate
as per
.I passwd.nntp
before issuing LIST command.
.TP
.B \-h
If the ``\fB\-h\fP'' flag is used, then the program connects to the server
on the specified host.
The default is to connect to the server specified in the
.I inn.conf
file.
.PP
If the
.I list
parameter is
.IR active ,
then the 
.I pattern
and
.I types
parameters may be used to limit the output.
When
.I pattern
is used, only active lines with groups that match according to
.IR uwildmat (3)
are printed.
When
.I types
is also given, only active lines that have a fourth field starting
with a character found in
.I types
are printed.
.PP
For example, the following command will obtain the one-line descriptions
of all newsgroups found on UUNET:
.RS
getlist -h news.uu.net newsgroups
.RE
.PP
The following line lists all groups where local postings are permitted,
are moderated or aliased:
.RS
getlist active '*' ym=
.RE
.PP
Note that the listing files other than the active file is a common
extension to the NNTP protocol and may not be available on all servers.
.SH HISTORY
Written by Landon Curt Noll <chongo@toad.com> for InterNetNews.
.de R$
This is revision \\$3, dated \\$4.
..
.SH "SEE ALSO"
active(5), active.times(5), inn.conf(5), nnrpd(8), uwildmat(3).
