.\" $Id$
.TH INNDF 8
.SH NAME
inndf \- Replacement for 'df | awk' in innwatch.ctl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inndf
[
.B \-i
]
.I filesystem(s)
\&|
[
.B \-o
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I inndf
is a replacement for 'df | awk' in
.IR innwatch.ctl (5)
or used in
.IR innstat (8).
.I inndf
reports free Kilobytes (not disk blocks) or free inodes.
Kilobytes in this case means 1024 bytes.
.PP
If arguments are multiply specified, the output includes multiple lines
which shows each specified argument and the value.  This is used by
.IR innstat (8).
.PP
.I inndf
doesn't sync, forks less, is less complicated, etc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i
If the ``\-i'' flag is used, then the number of free inodes are reported
instead of the number of free Kilobytes.
.TP
.B \-o
If the ``\-o'' flag is used, then overview space usage are reported as
percentage.  ``\-o'' cannot be always available.  This can be available
for ``buffindexed'' ovmethod currently.
.SH HISTORY
Inndf was written by Ian Dickinson <idickins@fore.com>.
The initial manual page was written by Swa Frantzen <Swa.Frantzen@Belgium.EU.net>.
Thanks also to the following folks for ports, patches and comments:
Mahesh Ramachandran <rr@eel.ufl.edu>,
Chuck Swiger <chuck@its.com>,
Sang-yong Suh <sysuh@kigam.re.kr>,
Brad Dickey <bdickey@haverford.edu>,
Taso N. Devetzis <devetzis@snet.net>,
Wei-Yeh Lee <weiyeh@columbia.edu>,
Jeff Garzik <jeff.garzik@spinne.com>,
and to all the other folks I met and worked with during my 10 years as a newsadmin.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
innwatch.ctl(5).
