.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Author:       James A. Brister <brister@vix.com> -- berkeley-unix --
.\" Start Date:   Sun, 21 Jan 1996 00:47:37 +1100
.\" Project:      INN -- innfeed
.\" File:         innfeed.conf.5
.\" RCSId:        $Id$
.\" Description:  Man page for innfeed.conf(5)
.\" 
.TH innfeed.conf 5
.SH NAME
innfeed.conf \- configuration file for innfeed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This man page describes the configuration file for version 1.0 of
innfeed. This format has changed dramatically since version 0.9.3.
.PP
The file 
.B innfeed.conf
is used to control the innfeed(1) program. It is a fairly free-format file
that consists of three types of entries: \fIkey/value\fP, \fIpeer\fP and
\fIgroup\fP.
Comments are from the hash character ``#'' to the end of the line.
.PP
\fIKey/value\fP entries are a keyword and a value separated by a colon
(which can itself be surrounded by whitespace). For example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
max-connections: 10
.fi
.RE
.PP
A legal
key starts with a letter and contains only letters, digits, and ``_'',
``-''.
.LP 
There are 5 different type of values: integers, floating-point numbers,
characters, booleans, and strings. Integer and floating point numbers are
as to be expected except that exponents in floating point numbers are not
supported. A boolean value is either ``true'' or ``false'' (case is not
significant). A character value is a single-quoted character as defined by
the C-language. A string value is any other sequence of characters. If the
string needs to contain whitespace, then it must be quoted with double
quotes, and uses the same format for embedding non-printing characters as
normal C-language string.
.PP
Peer entries look like:
.PP
.RS
.nf
peer <name> {
        # body ...
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
The word ``peer'' is required. The ``<name>'' is the same as the site name
in INN's newsfeeds file. The body of a peer entry contains some number
(possibly zero) of key/value entries.
.PP
Group entries look like:
.PP
.RS
.nf
group <name> {
	# body 
}
.fi
.RE
.PP 
The word ``group'' is required. The ``<name>'' is any string valid as a
key. The body of a group entry contains any number of the three types of
entries. So key/value pairs can be defined inside a group, and peers can be
nested inside a group, and other groups can be nested inside a group.
.PP
Key/value entries that are defined outside of all peer and group entries
are said to be at ``global scope''. There are global key/value entries that
apply to the process as a whole (for example the location of the backlog
file directory), and there are global key/value entries that act as
defaults for peers. When innfeed looks for a specific value in a peer entry
(for example, the maximum number of connections to set up), if the value is
not defined in the peer entry, then the enclosing groups are examined for
the entry (starting at the closest enclosing group). If there are no
enclosing groups, or the enclosing groups don't define the key/value, then
the value at global scope is used.
.PP
A small example could be:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Global value applied to all peers that have 
# no value of their own.
max-connections: 5

# A peer definition. ``uunet'' is the name used by innd in 
# the newsfeeds file.
peer uunet {
	ip-name: usenet1.uu.net
}

peer vixie {
        ip-name: gw.home.vix.com
        max-connections: 10      # override global value.
}

# A group of two peers who can handle more connections 
# than normal
group fast-sites {
	max-connections: 15

	# Another peer. The ``max-connections'' value from the
	# ``fast-sites'' group scope is used. The ``ip-name'' value
	# defaults to the peer's name.
	peer data.ramona.vix.com { 
	}

	peer bb.home.vix.com {
		max-connections: 20	# he can really cook.
	}
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
Given the above configuration file, the defined peers would have the
following values for the ``max-connections'' key.
.PP
.RS
.nf
uunet                  5
vixie                 10
data.ramona.vix.com   15
bb.home.vix.com       20
.fi
.RE
.PP
Innfeed ignores key/value pairs it is not interested in. Some config file
values can be set via a command line option, in which case that setting
overrides the settings in the file.
.PP
Config files can be included in other config files via the syntax:
.sp 1
.nf
.RS
$INCLUDE filename
.RE
.fi
.sp 1
There is a maximum nesting depth of 10.
.PP
For a fuller example config file, see the supplied \fIinnfeed.conf\fP.
.SH "GLOBAL VALUES"
.PP
The following listing show all the keys that apply to the process as
whole. These are not required (compiled-in defaults are used where needed).
.TP
.B news-spool
This key requires a pathname value. It specifies where the top of the
article spool is. This corresponds to the ``\fI\-a\fP'' command-line
option.
.TP
.B input-file
This key requires a pathname value. It specifies the pathname (relative to
the \fBbacklog-directory\fP) that should be read in funnel-file mode. This
corresponds to giving a filename as an argument on the command-line (i.e.
its presence also implies that funnel-file mode should be used).
.TP
.B pid-file
This key requires a pathname value. It specifies the pathname (relative to
the \fBbacklog-directory\fP) where the pid of the innfeed process should be
stored. This corresponds to the ``\fI\-p\fP'' command-line option.
.TP
.B debug-level
This key defines the debug level for the process. A non-zero number
generates a lot of messages to stderr, or to the config-defined ``log-file''.
This corresponds to the ``\fI\-d\fP'' command-line option.
.TP
.B use-mmap
This key requires a boolean value. It specifies whether mmaping should be
used if innfeed has been built with mmap support. If article data on disk
is not in NNTP-ready format (CR/LF at the end of each line), then after
mmaping the article is read into memory and fixed up, so mmaping has no
positive effect (and possibly some negative effect depending on your
system), and so in such a case this value should be \fIfalse\fP. This
corresponds to the ``\fI\-M\fP'' command-line option.
.TP
.B log-file
This key requires a pathname value. It specifies where any logging messages
that couldn't be sent via syslog(3) should go (such as those generated when
a positive value for ``\fBdebug-value\fP'', is used). This corresponds to 
the ``\fI\-l\fP'' command-line option. A relative pathname is relative to
the ``\fBbacklog-directory\fP'' value.
.\" .TP
.\" .B initial-sleep
.\" This key requires a positive integer value. It specifies how many seconds
.\" innfeed should sleep at startup before attempting to take out its locks. On
.\" fast machines and with innfeed handling many connections, it can take too
.\" long for innfeed to recognise that its input has been closed, and that it
.\" should release any locks it holds.
.\"..................................................
.TP
.B backlog-directory
This key requires a pathname value. It specifies where the current innfeed
process should store backlog files. This corresponds to the ``\fI\-b\fP''
command-line option.
.TP
.B backlog-highwater
This key requires a positive integer value. It specifies how many articles
should be kept on the backlog file queue before starting to write new
entries to disk.
.TP
.B backlog-ckpt-period
This key requires a positive integer value. It specifies how many seconds
between checkpoints of the input backlog file. Too small a number will mean
frequent disk accesses, too large a number will mean after a crash innfeed
will re-offer more already-processed articles than necessary.
.TP
.B backlog-newfile-period
This key requires a positive integer value. It specifies how many seconds
before each checks for externally generated backlog files that are to be
picked up and processed.
.TP
.B backlog-rotate-period
This key requires a positive integer value. It specifies how many seconds
elapse before
.B innfeed
checks for a manually created backlog file and moves the output backlog
file to the input backlog file.
.\"..................................................
.TP
.B dns-retry
This key requires a positive integer value. It defines the number of seconds
between attempts to re-lookup host information that previous failed to be
resolved.
.TP
.B dns-expire
This key requires a positive integer value. It defines the number of seconds
between refreshes of name to address DNS translation. This is so long-running
processes don't get stuck with stale data, should peer ip addresses change.
.TP
.B close-period
This key requires a positive integer value. It is the maximum number of
seconds a connection should be kept open. Some NNTP servers don't deal well
with connections being held open for long periods.
.TP
.B gen-html
This key requires a boolean value. It specifies whether the
\fBstatus-file\fP should be HTML-ified.
.TP
.B status-file
This key requires a pathname value. It specifies the pathname (relative to
the \fBbacklog-directory\fP) where the periodic status of the innfeed
process should be stored. This corresponds to the ``\fI\-S\fP''
command-line option.
.TP
.B connection-stats
This key requires a boolean value. If the value is true, then whenever the
transmission statistics for a peer are logged, then each active connection
logs its own statistics. This corresponds to the ``\fI\-z\fP''
command-line option.
.TP
.B host-queue-highwater
This key requires a positive integer value. It defines how many articles
will be held internally for a peer before new arrivals cause article
information to be spooled to the backlog file.
.TP
.B stats-period
This key requires a positive integer value. It defines how many seconds
innfeed waits between generating statistics on transfer rates.
.TP
.B stats-reset
This key requires a positive integer value. It defines how many seconds
innfeed waits before resetting all internal transfer counters back to zero
(after logging one final time). This is so a innfeed-process running more
than a day will generate ``final'' stats that will be picked up by logfile
processing scripts.
.\"..................................................
.TP
.B initial-reconnect-time
This key requires a positive integer value. It defines how many seconds to
first wait before retrying to reconnect after a connection failure. If the
next attempt fails too, then the reconnect time is approximately doubled
until the connection succeeds, or \fBmax-reconnection-time\fP is reached.
.TP
.B max-reconnect-time
This key requires an integer value. It defines the maximum number of
seconds to wait between attempt to reconnect to a peer. The initial value
for reconnection attempts is defined by \fBinitial-reconnect-time\fP, and
it is doubled after each failure, up to this value.
.TP
.B stdio-fdmax
This key requires a non-negative integer value. If the value is greater
than zero, then whenever a network socket file descriptor is created and
it has a value \fIless than\fP this, the file descriptor will be dup'ed to
bring the value up greater than this. This is to leave lower numbered file
descriptors free for stdio. Certain systems, Sun's in particular, require
this. SunOS 4.1.x usually requires a value of 128 and Solaris requires a
value of 256. The default if this is not specified, is 0.
.TP
.B bindaddress
This key requires a string value.  It specifies which outgoing IPv4 address
innfeed should bind the local end of its connections to.
Must be in dotted-quad format (nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn).
If not set, innfeed defaults to the value of \fBsourceaddress\fP from
inn.conf(5).
The default value is unset.
.TP
.B bindaddress6
This key requires a string value.  It behaves like \fBbindaddress\fP except
for outgoing IPv6 connections.  A value containing colons must be enclosed
in double quotes.
.\"..................................................
.SH "GLOBAL PEER DEFAULTS"
.PP
All the key/value pairs mentioned in this section must be specified at
global scope. They may also be specified inside a group or peer
definition. Note that when peers are added dynamically (i.e. when
innfeed receives an article for an unspecified peer), it will add
the peer site using the parameters specified at global scope.
.TP
.B article-timeout
This key requires a non-negative integer value. If no articles need to be
sent to the peer for this many seconds, then the peer is considered idle
and all its active connections are torn down.
.TP
.B response-timeout
This key requires a non-negative integer value. It defines the maximum
amount of time to wait for a response from the peer after issuing a
command.
.TP
.B initial-connections
This key requires a non-negative integer value. It defines the number of
connections to be opened immediately when setting up a peer binding. A
value of 0 means no connections will be created until an article needs to
be sent.
.TP
.B max-connections
This key requires positive integer value. It defines the maximum number of
connections to run in parallel to the peer. A value of zero specifies an
unlimited number of maximum connections. In general use of an unlimited
number of maximum connections is not recommended. Do not ever set
\fBmax-connections\fP to zero with \fBdynamic-method\fP 0 set, as this will
saturate peer hosts with connections. [ Note that in previous versions
of innfeed, a value of 1 had a special meaning. This is no longer the case,
1 means a maximum of 1 connection ].
.TP
.B dynamic-method
This key requires an integer value between 0 and 3. It controls how connections
(up to max-connections) are opened, up to the maximum specified by
\fBmax-connections\fP. In general (and specifically, with \fBdynamic-method\fP
0), a new connection is opened when the current number of connections is
below \fBmax-connections\fP, and an article is to be sent while no current
connections are idle. Without further restraint (i.e. using
\fBdynamic-method\fP 0), in practice this means that \fBmax-connections\fP
connections are established while articles are being sent. Use of other
\fBdynamic-method\fP settings imposes a further limit on the amount of
connections opened below that specified by \fBmax-connections\fP. This
limit is calculated in different ways, depending of the value of
\fBdynamic-method\fP.
Users should note that adding additional connections is not always
productive - just because opening twice as many connections results
in a small percentage increase of articles accepted by the remote peer,
this may be at considerable resource cost both locally and at the remote
site, whereas the remote site might well have received the extra articles
sent from another peer a fraction of a second later. Opening large
numbers of connections is considered antisocial.
The meanings of the various settings are:
.RS
.TP
.B 0 no method
Increase of connections up to \fBmax-connections\fP is unrestrained.
.TP
.B 1 maximize articles per second
Connections are increased (up to \fBmax-connections\fP) and decreased so as
to maximize the number of articles per second sent, while using the fewest
connections to do this.
.TP
.B 2 set target queue length
Connections are increased (up to \fBmax-connections\fP) and decreased so as
to keep the queue of articles to be sent within the bounds set by
\fBdynamic-backlog-low\fP and \fBdynamic-backlog-high\fP,
while using the minimum resources possible.
As the queue will tend to fill if the site is not keeping up, this method
ensures that the maximum number of articles are offered to the peer
while using the minimum number of connections to achieve this.
.TP
.B 3 combination
This method uses a combination of methods 1 and 2 above. For sites
accepting a large percentage of articles, method 2 will be used to
ensure these sites are offered as complete a feed as possible. For sites
accepting a small percentage of articles, method 1 is used, to minimize
remote resource usage. For intermediate sites, an appropriate combination
is used.
.RE
.TP
.B dynamic-backlog-low
This key requires an integer value between 0 and 100.  It represents (as a
percentage) the low water mark for the host queue. If the host queue falls
below this level while using \fBdynamic-method\fP 2 or 3, and if 2 or more
connections are open, innfeed will attempt to drop connections to the host.
An IIR filter is applied to the value to prevent connection flap (see
\fBdynamic-filter\fP). A value of 25.0 is recommended. This value
must be smaller than \fBdynamic-backlog-high\fP.
.TP
.B dynamic-backlog-high
This key requries an integer value between 0 and 100.  It represents (as a
percentage) the high water mark for the host queue. If the host queue rises
above this level while using \fBdynamic-method\fP 2 or 3, and if less than
\fBmax-connections\fP are open to the host, innfeed will attempt
to open further connections to the host. An IIR filter is applied to the value
to prevent connection flap (see \fBdynamic-filter\fP). A value of 50.0
is recommended.  This value must be larger than \fBdynamic-backlog-low\fP.
.TP
.B dynamic-backlog-filter
This key requires a floating-point value between 0 and 1.  It represents the
filter coefficient used by the IIR filter used to implement
\fBdynamic-method\fP 2 and 3.
The recommended value of this filter is 0.7, giving a time
constant of 1/(1-0.7) articles. Higher values will result in slower
response to queue fullness changes, lower values in faster response.
.TP
.B max-queue-size
This key requires a positive integer value. It defines the maximum number
of articles to process at one time when using streaming to transmit to a
peer. Larger numbers mean more memory consumed as articles usually get
pulled into memory (see the description of \fBuse-mmap\fP).
.TP
.B streaming
This key requires a boolean value. It defines whether streaming commands
are used to transmit articles to the peers.
.TP
.B no-check-high
This key requires a floating-point number which must be in the range [0.0,
100.0]. When running transmitting with the streaming commands, innfeed
attempts an optimization called ``no-CHECK'' mode. This involves \fInot\fP
asking the peer if it wants the article, but just sending it. This
optimization occurs when the percentage of the articles the peer has
accepted gets larger than this number. If this value is set to 100.0, then
this effectively turns off no-CHECK mode, as the percentage can never get
above 100.0. If this value is too small, then the number of articles the
peer rejects will get bigger (and your bandwidth will be wasted). A value
of 95.0 usually works pretty well. NOTE: In innfeed 0.9.3 and earlier this
value was in the range [0.0, 9.0].
.TP
.B no-check-low:
This key requires a floating-point number which must be in the range [0.0,
100.0), and it must be smaller that the value for \fBno-check-high\fP. When
running in no-CHECK mode, as described above, if the percentage of articles
the remote accepts drops below this number, then the no-CHECK optimization
is turned off until the percentage gets above the \fBno-check-high\fP value
again. If there is small difference between this and the
\fBno-check-high\fP value (less than about 5.0), then innfeed may
frequently go in and out of no-CHECK mode. If the difference is too big,
then it will make it harder to get out of no-CHECK mode when necessary
(wasting bandwidth). Keeping this to between 5.0 and 10.0 less than
\fBno-check-high\fP usually works pretty well.
.TP
.B no-check-filter
This is a floating point value representing the time constant, in articles,
over which the CHECK / no-CHECK calculations are done. The recommended
value is 50.0 which will implement an IIR filter of time constant 50. This
roughly equates to making a decision about the mode over the previous
50 articles. A higher number will result in a slower response to changing
percentages of articles accepted; a lower number will result in a faster
response.
.TP
.B port-number
This key requires a positive integer value. It defines the tcp/ip port
number to use when connecting to the remote.
.TP
.B force-ipv4
This key requires a boolean value. By default it is set to false.
If it is set to true, innfeed will not try to use IPv6 with that peer.
.TP
.B drop-deferred
This key requires a boolean value. By default it is set to false. When
set to true, and a peer replies with code 431 or 436 (try again later) just
drop the article and don't try to re-send it. This is useful for some
peers that keep on deferring articles for a long time to prevent innfeed
from trying to offer the same article over and over again.
.TP
.B min-queue-connection
This key requires a boolean value. By default it is set to false. When
set to true, innfeed will attempt to use a connection with the least queue
size (or the first empty connection).  If this key is set to true, it is
recommended that \fBdynamic-method\fP be set to 0. This allows for article
propagation with the least delay.
.TP
.B no-backlog
This key requires a boolean value. It specifies whether spooling should
be enabled (false, the default) or disabled (true). Note that when no-backlog
is set, articles reported as "spooled" are actually silently discarded.
.TP
.B backlog-limit
This key requires a non-negative integer value. If the number is 0 then
backlog files are allowed to grown without bound when the peer is unable to
keep up with the article flow. If this number is greater than 0 then it
specifies the size (in bytes) the backlog file should get truncated to when
the backlog file reaches a certain limit. The limit depends on whether
\fBbacklog-factor\fP or \fBbacklog-limit-highwater\fP is used.
.TP
.B backlog-factor
This key requires a floating point value, which must be larger than 1.0. It
is used in conjunction with the peer key \fBbacklog-limit\fP. If
\fBbacklog-limit\fP has a value greater than zero, then when the backlog
file gets larger than the value \fBbacklog-limit * backlog-factor\fP, then
the backlog file will be truncated to the size \fBbacklog-limit\fP. For
example if \fBbacklog-limit\fP has a value of 1000000, and
\fBbacklog-factor\fP has a value of 2.0, then when the backlogfile gets to
be larger than 2000000 bytes in size, it will be truncated to 1000000 bytes.
The front
portion of the file is removed, and the trimming happens on line boundaries,
so the final size may be a bit less than this number. If
\fBbacklog-limit-highwater\fP is defined too, then \fBbacklog-factor\fP
takes precedence.
.TP
.B backlog-limit-highwater
This key requires a positive integer value that must be larger than the
value for \fBbacklog-limit\fP. If the size of the backlog file gets larger
than this value (in bytes), then the backlog file will be shrunk down to
the size of \fBbacklog-limit\fP. If both \fBbacklog-factor\fP and
\fBbacklog-limit-highwater\fP are defined, then the value of
\fBbacklog-factor\fP is used.
.TP
.B backlog-feed-first
This key requires a boolean value. By default it is set to false. When set
to true, the backlog is fed before new files. This is intended to enforce
in-order delivery, so setting this to true when initial-connections or
max-connections is more than 1 is inconsistent.
.TP
.B username
This key requires a string value.  If the value is defined, then innfeed
tries to authenticate by ``AUTHINFO USER'' and this value used for user name.
\fBpassword\fP must also be defined, if this key is defined.
.TP
.B password
This key requires a string value.  The value is the password
used for ``AUTHINFO PASS''.
\fBusername\fP must also be defined, if this key is defined.
.TP
.B deliver
This key is used with imapfeed to authenticate to a remote host.  It is optional.
There are several parameters that must be included with deliver:
.RS
.TP
.B deliver-authname
The authname is who you want to authenticate as.
.TP
.B deliver-password
This is the appropriate password for authname.
.TP
.B deliver-username
The username is who you want to "act" as, that is, who is actually
going to be using the server.
.TP
.B deliver-realm
In this case, the "realm" is the realm in which the specified authname
is valid.  Currently this is only needed by the DIGEST-MD5 SASL
mechanism.
.TP
.B deliver-rcpt-to
A printf-style format string for creating the envelope recipient address.
The pattern MUST include a single string specifier which will be
replaced with the newgroup (e.g "bb+%s").  The default is "+%s".
.TP
.B deliver-to-header
An optional printf-style format string for creating a To: header to be
prepended to the article.  The pattern MUST include a single string
specifier which will be replaced with the newgroup (e.g
"post+%s@domain").  If not specified, the To: header will not be
prepended.
.RE
.\"..................................................
.SH "PEER VALUES"
As previously explained, the peer definitions can contain redefinitions of
any of the key/value pairs described in the \fBGLOBAL PEER DEFAULTS\fP
section above. There is one key/value pair that is specific to a peer
definition.
.TP
.B ip-name
This key requires a word value. The word is the host's FQDN, or the dotted
quad ip-address. If this value is not specified then the name of the peer
is taken to also be its ip-name. See the entry for
data.ramona.vix.com in the example below.
.\"..................................................
.SH RELOADING
.PP
If innfeed gets a SIGHUP signal, then it will reread the config file. All
values at global scope except for ``\fBbacklog-directory\fP'' can be
changed (although note that ``\fBbindaddress\fP'' and
``\fBbindaddress6\fP'' changes will only affect new connections). Any new
peers are added and any missing peers have their connections closed.
.\"..................................................
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Below is the sample innfeed.conf file.
.RS
.nf
#
# innfeed.conf file. See the comment block at the
# end for a fuller description.
#

##
## Global values. Not specific to any peer. These
## are optional, but if used will override the
## compiled in values. Command-line options used
## will override these values.
##

pid-file:               innfeed.pid
debug-level:            0
use-mmap:               false
log-file:               innfeed.log
stdio-fdmax:            0

backlog-directory:      innfeed
backlog-rotate-period:  60
backlog-ckpt-period:    30
backlog-newfile-period: 600

dns-retry:              900
dns-expire:             86400
close-period:           3600
gen-html:               false
status-file:            innfeed.status
connection-stats:       false
host-queue-highwater:   200
stats-period:           600
stats-reset:            43200

max-reconnect-time:     3600
initial-reconnect-time: 30


##
## Defaults for all peers. These must all exist at
## global scope. Any of them can be redefined
## inside a peer or group definition.
##

article-timeout:        600
response-timeout:       300
initial-connections:    1
max-connections:        5
max-queue-size:         25
streaming:              true
no-check-high:          95.0
no-check-low:           90.0
no-check-filter:        50.0
port-number:            119
backlog-limit:          0
backlog-factor:         1.10
backlog-limit-highwater:0
dynamic-method:         3
dynamic-backlog-filter: 0.7
dynamic-backlog-low:    25.0
dynamic-backlog-high:   50.0
no-backlog:             false

##
## Peers. 
##
peer decwrl {
        ip-name:                news1.pa.dec.com
}

peer uunet {
        ip-name:                news.uunet.uu.net
        max-connections:        10
}

peer data.ramona.vix.com {
        # ip-name defaults to data.ramona.vix.com
        streaming:              false
}

peer bb.home.vix.com {
        ip-name:        192.5.5.33
}



# Blank lines are ignored. Everything after a '#'
# is ignored too.
#
# Format is:
#               key : value
#
# See innfeed.conf(5) for a description of
# necessary & useful keys. Unknown keys and their
# values are ignored.
#
# Values may be a integer, floating-point, c-style
# single-quoted characters, boolean, and strings.
#
# If a string value contains whitespace, or
# embedded quotes, or the comment character
# (``#''), then the whole string must be quoted
# with double quotes.  Inside the quotes, you may
# use the standard c-escape sequence
# (\\t,\\n,\\r,\\f,\\v,\\",\\').
#
# Examples:
#       eg-string:      "New\tConfig\tfile\n"
#       eg-long-string: "A long string that goes
#                       over multiple lines. The
#                       newline is kept in the
#                       string except when quoted 
#                       with a backslash \
#                       as here."
#       eg-simple-string: A-no-quote-string
#       eg-integer:     10
#       eg-boolean:     true
#       eg-char:        'a'
#       eg-ctrl-g:      '\007'

.fi
.RE
.SH HISTORY
Written by James Brister <brister@vix.com> for InterNetNews.
.de R$
This is revision \\$3, dated \\$4.
..
.R$ $Id$
.SH SEE ALSO
innfeed(1), newsfeeds(5)
