.\" $Revision$
.TH LIBINN 3
.SH NAME
libinn \- InterNetNews library routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ta \w'    unsigned long    'u
.B
#include "inn/libinn.h"

.B "char *"
.B "GenerateMessageID(domain)"
.B "    char    *domain;"

.B "void"
.B "HeaderCleanFrom(from)"
.B "    char	*from;"

.B "FILE *"
.B "CAopen(FromServer, ToServer)"
.B "    FILE	*FromServer;"
.B "    FILE	*ToServer;"

.B "FILE *"
.B "CAlistopen(FromServer, ToServer, request)"
.B "    FILE	*FromServer;"
.B "    FILE	*ToServer;"
.B "    char	*request;"

.B "void"
.B "CAclose()"

.B "struct _DDHANDLE *"
.B "DDstart(FromServer, ToServer)"
.B "    FILE	*FromServer;"
.B "    FILE	*ToServer;"

.B "void"
.B "DDcheck(h, group)"
.B "    DDHANDLE	*h;"
.B "    char	*group;"

.B "char *"
.B "DDend(h)"
.B "    DDHANDLE	*h;"

.B "void"
.B "fdflag_close_exec(fd, flag)"
.B "    int	fd;"
.B "    bool	flag;"

.B "int"
.B "fdflag_nonblocking(fd, flag)"
.B "    socket_type	fd;"
.B "    bool	flag;"

.B "bool"
.B "inn_lock_file(fd, type, flag)"
.B "    int	fd;"
.B "    LOCKTYPE	type;"
.B "    bool	block;"

.B "char *"
.B "GetFQDN(domain)"
.B "    char    *domain;"

.B "char *"
.B "GetModeratorAddress(FromServer, ToServer, group, moderatormailer)"
.B "    FILE	*FromServer;"
.B "    FILE	*ToServer;"
.B "    char	*group;"
.B "    char	*moderatormailer;"

.B "int"
.B "GetResourceUsage(usertime, systime)"
.B "    double	*usertime;"
.B "    double	*systime;"

.B "int"
.B "NNTPlocalopen(FromServerp, ToServerp, errbuff, len)"
.B "    FILE	**FromServerp;"
.B "    FILE	**ToServerp;"
.B "    char	*errbuff;"
.B "    size_t  len;"

.B "int"
.B "NNTPremoteopen(port, FromServerp, ToServerp, errbuff, len)"
.B "    int	port;"
.B "    FILE	**FromServerp;"
.B "    FILE	**ToServerp;"
.B "    char	*errbuff;"
.B "    size_t  len;"

.B "int"
.B "NNTPconnect(host, port, FromServerp, ToServerp, errbuff, len)"
.B "    char	*host;"
.B "    int	port;"
.B "    FILE	**FromServerp;"
.B "    FILE	**ToServerp;"
.B "    char	*errbuff;"
.B "    size_t  len;"

.B "int"
.B "NNTPsendarticle(text, ToServer, Terminate)"
.B "    char	*text;"
.B "    FILE	*ToServer;"
.B "    int	Terminate;"

.B "int"
.B "NNTPsendpassword(server, FromServer, ToServer)"
.B "    char	*server;"
.B "    FILE	*FromServer;"
.B "    FILE	*ToServer;"

.B "void"
.B "Radix32(value, p)
.B "    unsigned long	value;"
.B "    char	*p;"

.B "char *"
.B "ReadInFile(name, Sbp)"
.B "    char	*name;"
.B "    struct stat	*Sbp;"

.B "char *"
.B "ReadInDescriptor(fd, Sbp)"
.B "    int	fd;"
.B "    struct stat	*Sbp;"

.B "HASH"
.B "HashMessageID(MessageID)"
.B "    const char *MessageID;"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Libinn
is a library of utility routines for manipulating Usenet articles and
related data.
.PP
.I GenerateMessageID
uses the current time, process-ID, and fully-qualified domain name, which is
passed as an argument and used if local host can not be resolved or it is
different from ``domain'' set in
.IR inn.conf ,
to create a Message-ID header that is highly likely to be unique.
The returned value points to static space that is reused on subsequent calls.
.PP
.I HeaderCleanFrom
removes the extraneous information from the value of a ``From'' or ``Reply-To''
header and leaves just the official mailing address.
In particular, the following transformations are made to the
.I from
parameter:
.RS
.nf
.ta \w'stuff <address>  'u
address	-->  address
address (stuff)	-->  address
stuff <address>	-->  address
.fi
.RE
The transformations are simple, based on RFC\ 5536 which limits the format
of the header.
.PP
.I CAopen
and
.I CAclose
provide news clients with access to the active file; the ``CA'' stands for
.IR C lient
.IR A ctive.
.I CAopen
opens the
.I active
file for reading.
It returns a pointer to an open FILE, or NULL on error.
If a local or NFS-mounted copy exists,
.I CAopen
will use that file.
The
.I FromServer
and
.I ToServer
parameters should be FILE's connected to the NNTP server for input and
output, respectively.
See
.I NNTPremoteopen
or
.IR NNTPlocalopen ,
below.
If either parameter is NULL, then
.I CAopen
will just return NULL if the file is not locally available.
If they are not NULL,
.I CAopen
will use them to query the NNTP server using
the ``list'' command to make a local temporary copy.
.PP
The
.I CAlistopen
sends a ``list'' command to the server and returns a temporary file
containing the results.
The
.I request
parameter, if not NULL, will be sent as an argument to the command.
Unlike
.IR CAopen ,
this routine will never use a locally-available copy of the active file.
.PP
.I CAclose
closes the active file and removes any temporary file that might have
been created by
.I CAopen
or
.IR CAlistopen .
.PP
.I fdflag_close_exec
can make a descriptor ``close-on-exec'' so that it is not shared
with any child processes.
If the flag is non-zero, the file is so marked; if zero, the ``close-on-exec''
mode is cleared.
.PP
.IR DDstart ,
.IR DDcheck ,
and
.I DDend
are used to set the Distribution header; the ``DD'' stands for
.IR D efault
.IR D istribution.
The
.I distrib.pats
file is consulted to determine the proper value for the Distribution
header after all newsgroups have been checked.
.I DDstart
begins the parsing.
It returns a pointer to an opaque handle that should be used on subsequent
calls.
The
.I FromServer
and
.I ToServer
parameters should be FILE's connected to the NNTP server for input and
output, respectively.
If either parameter is NULL, then an empty default will ultimately be returned
if the file is not locally available.
.PP
.I DDcheck
should be called
with the handle,
.IR h ,
returned by
.I DDstart
and a newgroups,
.IR group ,
to check.
It can be called as often as necessary.
.PP
.I DDend
releases any state maintained in the handle and returns an allocated copy
of the text that should be used for the Distribution header.
.PP
.I fdflag_nonblocking
enables (if
.I flag
is non-zero) or disables (if
.I flag
is zero) non-blocking I/O on the indicated descriptor.
It returns \-1 on failure or zero on success.
.PP
.I inn_lock_file
tries to lock the file descriptor
.IR fd .
If
.I block
is true it will block until the lock can be made, otherwise
it will return false if the file cannot be locked.
.I type
is one of: INN_LOCK_READ, INN_LOCK_WRITE, or INN_LOCK_UNLOCK.
It returns false on failure or true on success.
.PP
.I GetFQDN
returns the fully-qualified domain name of the local host.
.I Domain
is used if local host can not be resolved.
The returned value points to static space that is reused on subsequent calls,
or NULL on error.
.PP
.I GetModeratorAddress
returns the mailing address of the moderator for specified
.I group
or NULL on error.
.I Moderatormailer
is used as its address, if there is no matched moderator.
See
.IR moderators (5)
for details on how the address is determined.
.I GetModeratorAddress
does no checking to see if the specified group is actually moderated.
The returned value points to static space that is reused on subsequent
calls.
The
.I FromServer
and
.I ToServer
parameters should be FILE's connected to the NNTP server for input and
output, respectively.  If either of these parameters is NULL, then an
attempt to get the list from a local copy is made.
.PP
.I GetResourceUsage
fills in the
.I usertime
and
.I systime
parameters with the total user and system time used by the current
process and any children it may have spawned.
If
.I <HAVE_GETRUSAGE in include/config.h>
is defined, it gets the values by doing a
.IR getrusage (2)
system call; otherwise it calls
.IR times (2).
It returns \-1 on failure, or zero on success.
.PP
.I NNTPlocalopen
opens a connection to the private port of an InterNetNews server running on
the local host, if
.I <HAVE_UNIX_DOMAIN_SOCKETS in include/config.h>
is defined. 
It returns \-1 on failure, or zero on success.
.I FromServerp
and
.I ToServerp
will be filled in with FILE's which can be used to communicate
with the server.
.I Errbuff
can either be NULL or a pointer to a buffer at least 512 bytes long.
If not NULL, and the server refuses the connection, then it will be
filled in with the text of the server's reply.
.I Len
should be the length of the buffer.
This routine is not for general use.
If
.I <HAVE_UNIX_DOMAIN_SOCKETS in include/config.h>
is not defined, this
is a stub routine, for compatibility with systems that have Unix-domain
stream sockets.
It always returns \-1.
.PP
.I NNTPremoteopen
does the same except that it uses ``innconf->server''
as the local server, and opens a connection to the
.IR port .
Any client program can use this routine.
It returns \-1 on failure, or zero on success.
.PP
.I NNTPconnect
is the same as
.I NNTPremoteopen
except that the desired host is given as the
.I host
parameter.
.PP
.I NNTPsendarticle
writes
.I text
on
.I ToServer
using NNTP conventions for line termination.
The text should consist of one or more lines ending with a newline.
If
.I Terminate
is non-zero, then the routine will also write the NNTP data-termination
marker on the stream.
It returns \-1 on failure, or zero on success.
.PP
.I NNTPsendpassword
sends authentication information to an NNTP server by finding the appropriate
entry in the
.I passwd.nntp
file.
.I Server
contains the name of the host; ``innconf->server'' will be used if
.I server
is NULL.
.I FromServer
and
.I ToServer
should be FILE's that are connected to the server.
No action is taken if the specified host is not listed in the password file.
.PP
.I Radix32
converts the number in
.I value
into a radix-32 string into the buffer pointed to by
.IR p .
The number is split into five-bit pieces and each pieces is converted
into a character using the alphabet
.I "0..9a..v"
to represent the numbers 0..32.
Only the lowest 32 bits of
.I value
are used, so
.I p
need only point to a buffer of eight bytes (seven characters and the
trailing \e0).
.PP
.I ReadInFile
reads the file named
.I name
into allocated memory, appending a terminating \e0 byte.
It returns a pointer to the space, or NULL on error.
If
.I Sbp
is not NULL, it is taken as the address of a place to store the results
of a
.IR stat (2)
call.
.PP
.I ReadInDescriptor
performs the same function as
.I ReadInFile
except that
.I fd
refers to an already-open file.
.PP
.I HashMessageID
returns hashed message-id using MD5.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.nf
char	*p;
char	*Article;
char	buff[256], errbuff[256];
FILE	*F;
FILE	*ToServer;
FILE	*FromServer;
int	port = 119;

if ((p = HeaderFind(Article, "From", 4)) == NULL)
    Fatal("Can't find From line");
(void)strcpy(buff, p);
HeaderCleanFrom(buff);

if ((F = CAopen(FromServer, ToServer)) == NULL)
    Fatal("Can't open active file");

/* Don't pass the file on to our children. */
fdflag_close_exec(fileno(F), 1);

/* Make a local copy. */
p = ReadInDescriptor(fileno(F), (struct stat *)NULL);

/* Close the file. */
CAclose();

if (NNTPremoteopen(port, &FromServer, &ToServer, errbuff) < 0)
    Fatal("Can't connect to server");

if ((p = GetModeratorAddress("comp.sources.unix")) == NULL)
    Fatal("Can't find moderator's address");
.fi
.RE
.SH HISTORY
Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.
.de R$
This is revision \\$3, dated \\$4.
..
.R$ $Id$
.SH "SEE ALSO"
active(5),
dbz(3z),
inn.conf(5),
inndcomm(3),
moderators(5),
passwd.nntp(5).
