.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Revision$
.TH NEWS2MAIL 8
.SH NAME
news2mail \- a channel script to gateway news into e\-mail.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I news2mail
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I news2mail
runs as a channel process underneath innd. It is set up as channel feed in
newsfeeds, with different mailing lists as funnel entries pointing to it (see
below).
.PP
.I news2mail
uses a config file 
.PP
.RS
.I <pathetc\ in\ inn.conf>/news2mail.cf
.RE
.PP
to map mailing list names to e\-mail addresses.
.PP
.I news2mail
causes sendmail to queue the messages for later delivery (to avoid DOS attacks
by mass postings). You must run 'sendmail -q' periodically to get the queue
processed.
.SH CONFIG FILE
The config file format is simple: comments (start with ``#'') and blank lines
are ignored. All other lines have two fields on them. The first is the list
name and is what innd uses (i.e. the site field of the entry in the newsfeeds
file). The second field is the actual e\-mail address to send the article to. In
the e\-mail message, the ``To'' header will have the mailing list name (i.e. the
first field).
.PP
.RS
.nf
# list-name             address
big-red-ants@ucsd.edu   big-red-ants-digest@ucsd.edu		
news-software@ucsd.edu  news-software-digest@ucsd.edu
.fi
.RE
.PP
a set of newsfeeds entries for these lists would be:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ds R$ <pathbin in inn.conf>
n2m!:!*:Tc,Ac,Wn*:\*(R$/news2mail

big-red-ants@ucsd.edu:rec.pets.redants.*:Tm:n2m!

news-software@ucsd.edu:news.software.nntp:Tm:n2m!
.fi
.RE
.PP
.I news2mail
strips most article headers from the article before mailing. It leaves: From, Subject
Date, Organization and Message-ID in there. It add a To header with the mailing 
list name in it.
.SH HISTORY
news2mail was written by Brian Kantor. This man page was written by James
Brister.
.de R$
This is revision \\$3, dated \\$4.
..
.R$ $Id$
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ctlinnd(8),
inn.conf(5),
innd(8),
newsfeeds(5),
shlock(1).

