.\" $Revision$
.TH NNRP.ACCESS 5
.SH NAME
nnrp.access \- access file for NNTP news readers.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I <pathetc in config.data>/nnrp.access
specifies the access control for those NNTP sites that are not
handled by the main InterNetNews daemon
.IR innd (8).
The
.IR nnrpd (8)
server reads it when first spawned by
.IR innd .
.PP
Comments begin with a number sign (``#'') and continue through the end
of the line.
Blank lines and comments are ignored.
All other lines should consist of two or five fields separated by colons:
.RS
.nf
hosts:perms:username:password:patterns
hosts:/full/path/filename
.fi
.RE
.PP
The first field is a
.IR wildmat (3)-style
pattern specifying the names or Internet address of a set of
.IR hosts .
Internet address style can be specified with slash ``/'' followed by
netmask (e.g. ``/25'' or ``255.255.255.128'').
Before a match is checked, the client's hostname (or its Internet
address if
.IR gethostbyaddr (3)
fails)
is converted to lowercase.
Each line is matched in turn, and the last successful match is taken
as the correct one.
.PP
The second field is either a full pathname (with leading ``/'') to
a second access file (in the same format) to scan for a specified
first field pattern or a set of letters specifying the permissions granted
to the client.
The
.I perms
should be chosen from the following set (case is significant):
.RS
.nf
R	The client can retrieve articles
P	The client can post articles
N	The client can use the NEWNEWS command, overriding the global setting
L	The client can post to groups with local-posting prohibited
.fi
.RE
If the filename option is used, no checks are done for recursion
so loops can occur - be careful.
.PP
The third and fourth fields specify the
.I username
and
.I password
that the client must use to authenticate themselves before the server
will accept any articles.
Note that no authentication (other then a matching entry in this file)
is required for newsreading.
If they are empty, then no password is required.
Whitespace in these fields will result in the client being unable
to properly authenticate themselves and may be used to disable access.
If <HAVE_SHADOW in config.data> is ``DO'' and
the third field is ``+'', then
.IR nnrpd (8)
uses
.IR crypt (3)
to authenticate passed username and password.
.PP
The fifth field is a set of patterns identifying the newsgroups that
the client is allowed to access.
The patterns are interpreted in the same manner as the
.IR newsfeeds (5)
file except for ``@''.
The default, however, denies access to all groups.
.PP
There is another line format, which can be used to pre-define an access
list.
.RS
.nf
%DEFINEn:pattern
.fi
.RE
.PP
The %DEFINE is literal and is followed by a number to define that
particular pattern. You can then use ``%n'' (replacing ``n'' with
the number you used in the %DEFINE) as a complete
replacement for the ``pattern'' option in subsequent lines (i.e: you
cannot use it along with normal patterns). This can be used to reduce
the size of the access file when large access patterns are used and
hence speed up scanning the file. By default, only 10 patterns can
be used.
.PP
The access file is normally used to provide host-level access control
for reading and posting articles.
There are times, however, when this is not sufficient and user-level access
control is needed.
Whenever an NNTP ``authinfo'' command is used, the 
.I nnrpd
server re-reads this file and looks for a matching username and password.
If the local newsreaders are modified to send the ``authinfo'' command,
then all host entries can have no access and specific users can be granted
the appropriate read and post access.
.PP
For example:
.RS
.nf
##  host:perm:user:pass:groups
## Default is no access.
*::  -no-  :  -no-  :!*
##  FOO hosts have no password, can read anything.
*.foo.com:Read Post:::*
##  A related workstation can't access FOO newsgroups.
lenox.foo.net:RP:martha:hiatt:*,!foo.*
## Define a list to be used twice
%DEFINE0:!*,bar.*,foo.*,comp.*,news.*,rec.*,soc.*,alt.*,!alt.binaries.*
bar1.foo.net:RP:::%0
bar2.foo.net:R:::%0
.fi
.RE
.PP
If the file contains passwords, it should not be world-readable.
.SH HISTORY
Written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for InterNetNews.
.de R$
This is revision \\$3, dated \\$4.
..
.R$ $Id$
.SH "SEE ALSO"
inn.conf(5),
innd(8),
newsfeeds(5),
nnrpd(8),
wildmat(3).
