.TH SEND-UUCP 8
.SH NAME
send-nntp, send-ihave \- send Usenet articles to remote site
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B send-nntp
[
.B \-d
]
.B sitename:hostname | sitename
[
.B sitename:hostname | sitename ..
]
.PP
.B send-ihave
[
.B \-d
]
.B sitename:hostname | sitename
[
.B sitename:hostname | sitename ..
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The send-* utilities are scripts that process the batch files written
by
.IR innd (8)
to send Usenet articles to a remote NNTP site.
.PP
The sites to be fed may be specified by giving
.I sitename
.I hostname
pairs on the command line.
.PP
The
.I sitename
is the label the site has in the
.I newsfeeds
file, the
.I hostname
is the real hostname of the remote site, a FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name).
Normally, the
.I sitename
and the
.I hostname
are the same, and as such don't have to be specified as sitename:hostname
pairs but just as a sitename.
.PP
.I send-nntp
starts an innxmit to send the articles to the remote site.
.PP
.I send-ihave
encapsulates the articles in an
.I ihave
control message and uses
.I inews
to send the articles to a
.I to.sitename
pseudo-group. Using
.I send-ihave
is discouraged, nobody uses it anymore and even the author of this manpage
is unsure as to how it actually works or used to work.
.PP
.I send-*
expect that the batchfile for a site is named
.IR <pathoutgoing\ in\ inn.conf>/sitename .
To prevent batchfile corruption,
.IR shlock (1)
is used to ``lock'' these files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-d"
The ``\-d'' flag causes
.I nntpsend
to send output to stdout rather than the log file
.IR <pathlog\ in\ inn.conf>/<program-name>.log .
.SH NOTES
You should probably not use send-nntp, but
.IR innfeed ,
or if that is not possible,
.IR nntpsend .
.PP
The usual flags for a batch file for send-nntp are ``\fBTf,Wfm\fP''.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
newsfeeds(5),
nntpsend(8)
